RAILWAY PLUTES ARE
ABOVE THE LAW
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Chicago. — American railroads
. -f ,
acting as a unit began Tuesday a new
attempt to obtain permission to cut the
wages of a million and a half railroad
employes and to do away with the
standard rates of railroad wages which
now prevail throughout ' the nation.
Uisregardmg the protest or railway la-1
bor representatives, the United States
railway labor board permitted roads
which have violated the provisions of
the federal transportation act and sac
rificed thereby their right to bring
cases before the board to present ap
peals for wage cuts. All rail workers
except train and engine service men
are involved.
If a man is unhappy, this must be
his own fault, for God made all men
to be happy.—Epictetus.
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP—this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp and the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked; then it flows out at the other
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining of
white sugar. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
ter—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about 1J4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food value. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and plain. Try a pound of this and
see what Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to:
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA.
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
Made and Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing pioblem in: —
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital ^re high or low. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA,
THE LURE, WITCHERY
AND TREACHERY OF GOLD,
From Europe comes the report that
.< o ■ £ i /.I -, r
,the Swiss frank (the money unit of
me owiss iranx <,tne money unit or
c . , ,
er ^ " as experienced an un
precedented inflation in value.. It is
in demand everywhere over there, and
consequently commands a premium ov
er a „ money units of other Eur0 n
. . , . . ,
COU j ntr ' eS -. secre " not , fa ' to
* or ll IS " ue to l " e * act bus
iness people in Europe quite generally
stipulate that for goods supplied, etc.,
payment is to be made in Swiss franks
and thus a general demand has been
created for Swiss money
Thus it will be seen that as long as
a certain kind of secredness is imputed
to contracts, whether they are equita
ble or not, when once entered into, and
as long as the validity of a certain
payment, stipulated in contracts, is up
held and enforced by the courts, even
if governments should no longer coin
it, and legal tender money were also
abolished, the monopolizers of gold
would still be in a position to control
and exploit the industries of the world
through the instrumentality of private
contract and the sacredness imputed
to it and sustained by the courts, if
— uj „, v „
payment in gold were still specifically
contracted for and by weight at that,
It is not a mere accident that it has
become quite general in financial cir
cles to specify in all contracts for de
ferred payments that the same must
be discharged m coined gold of a s
ified weight and fineness. And it is
also not a mere accident when these
gentlemen want gold retained as the
basis of the public medium of exchange
even if coinage and legal tender issues
of government be done away with. For
as long as gold is recognized as a bas
is of the medium exchange, it will en
able the monopolizers of gold to re
tain control over the money of account
that will be used, and they will con
tinue to have the industries and the
business concerns of the nation under
their thumb as today.
Only the most criminal favoritism
can 'concede to the owners of gold a
pre-eminence in the business world
that is discriminatory to the owners of
all other forms of property and to the
destructive detriment of the public at
large.
Gold is no more necessary to impart
a definable value to a money of ac
count (a currency) than is platinum 01
diamonds. Would people be unable to
swap or barter goods of any descrip
tion whatsoever with one another pro
vided the last ounce of gold were sunk
nit iaoL uuntc ui guiu were suiiK.
into the depths of the ocean beyond
the reach of mankind forever? If not
why should it be permitted to interfere
with the free, unimpeded and uninter
Jrupted exchange of products and ser
;
vi « s? . , A .
During the American Livii War, gold
, sl , unk out s »8 ht the con ^ m P i }
ble cur and coward it is; and only
back jn the game to put
. , . . . ■
. sneaked back m the _
. American nation into an unnecessarily
( big indebetdness, which hasn't been
n
paid yet and is still vampïre-ïike sap
-
ping the life blood of the nation.
We are well aware of the fact that
the bulk of business to-day is transac
ted with non-legal-tender bank notes
and deposit currency and the wide
spread unemployment throughout the
nation and the millions of farmers ruin
ed through its instrumentality, isel
oquent testimony as to its pernicious
character.
The claim is advanced in some quar
ters that the value of gold must be
maintained.. That if all the labor ex
pended in the search and mining for
gold is taken into account, its present
proportionality of value is not too
high. It sounds very plausible, in
deed. But why should the high value
of gold be any more sustained than
the value of silver? If the labor cost
in prospecting and mining for silver
had been considered, its former high
er value should also have been sus
tained by law, but it was not.
. . The
writer has done a whole lot of work
prospecting for gold and silver for
which he never has reaped any re
turn.. Look, at all the former tools,
primitive machinery, and household
goods that in the course of time have
been thrown in the discard and which
^c-.were a dead loss to the owners. Why
shouldn't their value also have been
! sustained?
| Gold is no more necessary for a sat
isfactory monetary system than is plat
mum or diamond, or any other rare
but practically useless thing. Vanity
and surreptious greed are the back
ground for the high value of gold and
diamonds, and the bubble will burst
as soon as the people will get on to
the little game.
Many of the different money theo
ries are gotten up for no other pur
pose than to confuse the people. The
money question is a mighty simple pro
position when you once realize that
producers of every description can on
ly pay for what they get with what
they themselves produce or the useful
serveces they can perform. Legally
»„j „„kr 1 : 11 11.
as meS nf Tw SUCh lhing j
as means of equitable payment, and
P °il n | Ce A C n ntraCtS W u n tHey are|
ESt" f f, l contacts
ir he forfeited and outlawed for
ever. This would settle the money
problem.
The disparity between the monies
wciwccu me monies
°* *" e world entirely disappear if all
them everywhere were issued in a
1 definite relation and in the same pro
' P° r '' on productive labor as ought
to be the case.. It costs the same
amount of labor to produce a given
article in one country as in another,
when raw material is obtainable on the
same terms.. In domestic as well as in
international trade goods should only
be exchanged for othre goods and on
no other condition. The delusion of
a favorable balance of trade would
then disolve in thin air and be blown
into millions of smithereens, never to
be reintegrated in the human mind
again.
Nothing should ever be exported that
the people require for their own use
at home. And on the other hand noth
ing should ever be imported that can
be produced at home. Commerce with
other communities and other countries
should be reduced to the utmost min
imum and carried on at a minimum
expense. When that is done and when
cAjjcuse. wnen tnat is done and when
equity rules locally then the producer
will prosper, and not before.
The debt system is entirely unnec-|
COI-«/ • * • . . .
eisary and as a vicious imposition it
should be repudiated and never be tol
erated again.
DEMAND REVOCATION
OF LEWIS OUTRAGE
(By The Federated Press)
Belleville, III.. — Restoration of the
outlawed officials and members of the
Kansas district, United States Mine
Workers of America, is demanded in
a resolution adopted by Subdistrict 7
of Illinois.
The resolution reads:
"Whereas, the miners and official
r rv. . v ,uu ^ , ° a " u ulllciais
of District No. 14 (Kansas) are out-1
side of the United Mine Workers of
America because of the action of In
ternational executive board, and
Whereas, it has become necessary
for us as an organization to be united
in the coming conflict with the oper
ators,
'Therefore, be it resolved, that Sub
district No. 7 of District 12, U. M. W.
of A., demand that the autonomy be
restored to the officials and miners of
District 14, with all rights and privi
liges as they had prior to October,
1921, and
"Be it further resolved, that a copy
of this resojution be sent to the editor
of the United Mine Workers' Journal,
and to The Federated Press for public
ation."
Why do so many men never amount
to anything? Because they don't
think,—Edison.
HENRY FORD'S IDEA ENDORSED
BY THOMAS A. EDISON
By George D. Coleman
Henry Ford has proposed that the
thirty millions needed to complete the
work at Muscle Shoals be obtained not
^ î he issuan ?. e of bor ' d , s wh ° se . a "T
ed interest will amount to sixty-six mil
Governor th<
fjcu , ty cou , d easj , be a ed " We
wjIi issue bjl , s endorsed by t h e govern
lions and give profit to the bankers
who sell them to the public; but by the
issuance of thirty millions in currency
whose security will be the whole Shoals
plant endorsed by the government. The
currency to be put in circulation by
paying with these bills the material
and labor, and to be redeemed by the
products of the plant when in opera
tion.
This plan is endorsed by Thomas Ed
ison adn the plan and the endorsement
is now being circulated in the press. Of
course, the press owned or controlled
by the bankers will not print these
facts and will keep them from being
known to its readers. The Bankers'
Lobby will use ail the strong influence
they have upon Congress to defeat this
proposal as it would threaten their
profits, etc. But it is not a new idea
at all. On the Island of Guernsey, in
the English Channel the town of Guern
nsey needed a public market building,
and the citizens appealed to the gov
ernor. The governor asked them if
they had the stone, lime, wood, etc.,
and they replied that they had all the
materials and the labor power. The
Governor then told them that that dif
ment of the Island and use them to pay
for material and labor, and when the
market is built, we will receive the bills
in payment for the rent of the stalls
and the rent of the rooms and the hall
on the second floor, and when it has
all been redeemed, we can destroy the
bills and you will own a market that
has cost you nothing but the brinter's
bill and the clerical work."
The market was built, and when the
rents and income had redeemed the
bills, the Governor in his official robes
called the people together and the bills
were brought in boxes and dumped up
on a fire and burned; and he delivered
the Market Building to their Mayor
and in his speech of delivery he told
them: "Your market has not cost you
anything as all the bills have been re
«»y»""» is «11 me diiis nave Been re
tWd and there been no interest
charges paid to anyone."
Henr y Ford * s idea - endorsed by Mr.
Edison, is not a new idea, and anyone
who will visit the city of Guernsey will
see the strong, substantial market as
it stands as a monument to the good
common sense of the Governor and the
citizens of Guernsey Island.
FIELD WORKERS WANTED
FOR THE UNIVERSAL
CO-OPERATIVE BROTHERHOOD
Men and women who can organize
are wanted to help build the Univer
sal Co-operative Brotherhood. 0 good
living can be made by those who will
apply themselves and who have the
energy to wtay with the work.—'Ernest
,S. Wooster, 1941 Berkley Way, Berke
ley, Calif.
VIOLENCE IS ARGUMENT
OF THE DISHONEST
(By The Federated Press)
Ann Arbor.—The students' advisory
commitee of the University of Michi
gan senate is investigating the assault
on the college campus several nights
ago on G. D. Eaton, junior in the lit
Cr u? de P a !' tment ' who wrote an article
r 1'« i ''î Smart Set Magazine
1 March, frankly attacking the facul
ty 'i, w tudent ^ ody an< ^ Ann Arbor
COl I P. CP 11 fp in ouriûvi 1
college life in general.
Eaton was beaten by two or three
men who jumped on him from behind
in a dark spot near University hall.
The mysterious attack followed wide
spread heated discussions over his ar
ticle, which stirred the campus as it
has not been stirred îh a long time.
MORALS OF A TOOL OF
100% PROFITEERING PATRIOTS
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — Alfred E. Lindsey,
who fleeced Ne w York women out of
about $1,000,000 and took the life sav
• r 1 - o«v
?l gs , SCVer ?l w ? mei \ according to
Mrs. Laura Marling, in 1908, was
fursuing the vocation of private detec
tive, strikebreaker, and industrial spy,
with offices at Forty-Seventh street and'
Fifth Ave, New York City. Mrs. Mar
ling told the districe attorney's office,
and ^ even at that time specialized in
preying on women.
• DL-f Sey ' W ^° was arreste d in a hotel
in Philadelphia, is in jail here on char
ges of grand larceny, unable to pro
vide $50,000 bail.
The employers and manufacturers
and other business men whom he as
sisted^ in past years to break strikes
and teach labor its place," somehow
have taken no interest in him since he
got into the toils of the law.
Subscription Rates: "The Llano
Colonist" v/eekly, fo r one year, $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign
tries, $2.50..
coun
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacturing end.
But co-operatic» *or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of all, are owned equally and controlled ^colleclively.
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
The dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highland* of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the county ses! of VîrESB Parish. It !» about !5 rsilcs
*?om the Sabine River, 100 mile* from Shreveport, and nearly 300
oàie» flea New Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
in any section of the United States. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate. „
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make its community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life a< does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
■ to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, «ugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and olher crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evaporator house
and cured.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pure sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Belter than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modern brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed. The bricks made are of" excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the olher industries being operated for the benefit of the
community, are the following:
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant, bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
ing department ; hospital; hotel; swimming pool; theater: and at
various other seasons olher work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
tish desires in favor of collective need.
Jl, ' =» C3>*35WJ«5*. ^»ey îsene*« m
rnmn |Y ' !■ ® nd Persistent training to eliminate the
competitive spirit which has been drilled into them from youth.
class m -IV i T r'l C0 "T ra,0rS in!o ,wo 8 enera l classes: One
pie elv ni Y 1 I • c V Pera,e wi,h their fell ™s com
pletely The other class desires to live near a co -operative commun
these^thin^T 1 ~ lr own land - etc - desiring private ownership in
The Cofonv may buy land near ,he Colo "y at $15 per acre,
to come S the c7 ' T"" '° "T"' bo,h " who wish
in another ni T d ° 0n lhe ,erms of membership given
»V Cooot^F ' PaSC -- n,0Se Wh ° wish to land may
advantages of the cT' par '^P a,m 8 to an «'ent i„ the co-operative
,Ch " p, ^- a '
—36 ÂKî
s» ïTcrts: smsr id - "
Alt trams s.op here. You may not be able to purchase a tick*
It you are interested, send for more information and ask such Quê
tions „ y ou wish. Send stamp, for reply We wil l I
tri* ir want vd " to " 9k ^
lie ciear to you, merature lent free on request.
Llano Co-operative Colony
leesville, la.
—Advertisement