is the most
stable government
(By The Federated Press)
• Berlin. — Despite reports in the
American and western European press
and the patter by statesmen that the
Genoa conference to rehabilitate Eu
rope is a certainty, Russia expects an
eleventh-hour postponement.
Speaking before the communist sec
tion of the All-Russian Metalworkers*
congress, Lenin said:
"Nobody knows whether the Genoa
conference has any chance of taking
place. i fear that even those who have
issued the invitations know nothing de
finite about it."
The Russians believe that before the
convention opens another military of
fensive will be engineered against thenii
by the entente.
The entente fears Russia's present
position. Germany would probably
lend Russia spmpathetic support. Ger
man trade with Russia is already very
extensive. The Baltic entente (Es
thonia, Latvia, Lithunia) is bound to
support its eastern neighbor. The so
called little entente of Central Europe,
though dominated by French influence,
will seize every opportunity to eman
cipate itself and assert its independence
of France. This favors Russia, espe
cially since these countries are in ex
treme need of Russian trade. The
countries neutral during the war are
tired of domination by the Anglo
French entente and welcome the pros
pects of Russian trade.
The allies are divided. Italy badly
needs Russian raw materials. France
and Belgium dream of restoring a re
actionary regime in a unified Russia
in order to collect the czarist debt,
while England would rather see Rus
sia split up into small units. America
is regarded as favoring the English idea
of an international banking consortium
to exploit Russia along the lines pro
posed for China.
Russia's internal strength is formid
able. The working masses are loyal
to the government and the Red Army
is in excellent condition, both as to
morale and equipment.
The numerous trade agreements con
cluded by soviet missions have cement
ed Russia's foreign position, penetrat
ing even into France by the Red Cross
agreement that has just been entered
into. There is probably no more sta
ble goyernment in Europe than that
of Russia.
Western European diplomacy is pa
nicky in contemplation of Russian par
ticipation in the Genoa conference, a
prospect it sees no means of evading.
Indefinite postponement of the con
ference is the obvious solution for the
diplomats.
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
Made and Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in:—
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON ' i
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic, thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or low. It sets
fqrth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
alabama workers
stand by organization
(By The Federated Press)
Mobile, Ala. — The Mobile Central
Trades council is preparing to send out
an appeal for financial aid from mem
bers of organized labor for Organizer
John Winstanley, who was murderous
ly assaulted last fall while working un
der the auspices of the International
Union of Timberworkers in Florida.
Winstanley, while a passenger on a
train, was removed by force at a way
station. Although more than four
months have elapsed neither federal
nor state officials have taken any ac
tion. It is reported that eastern fin
ancial interests are using every effort
to keep , the government from bring
ing the matter up in the federal courts.
Winstanley was at the time of the as
sault secretary of the Mobile Central
Trades Council, and had taken up the
work of organizing the men in the tim
ber industry at the request of the in
ternational union.
co-operative theater
organized in seattle
(By The Federated Press)
The first co-operative dramatic the
ater in America has been organized in
t Seattle by twenty-six actors, musicians,
stage craftsmen, and members of the
; administrative staff of the former
j Wilkes theater, who have put their own
! money into the society, which they will
wholly manage and control themselves.
The first performance drew a record
crowd, and the company assures the
public that the same high standard will
be continued. They are not in the the
ater business, they say, to get rich, but
to secure steady employment and a de
cent living for themselves and to pro
vide clean entertainment for the pub
lic.
The Seattle Co-operative Theatre
follows out the plan made famous by
the great Moscow Art Theatre, one of
the finest play houses in Europe, which
is owned and managed by the artists
themselves. Co-operators in several
midwestern cities are successfully op
erating co-operative motion picture
houses, and a group of players from
Greenwish Village, New York City, are
at present producing their own plays.
The Seattle enterprise, however, is the
first time that the entire personnel of
a dramatic company in America has
united in establishing a co-operative
theater.
The unknown, that is what frightens
weak minds.—Louis Blanc.
Misery is dreamy, solitude creative.
—Charles Nodier.
i vWia
m
Wfl
mmm
«
KZ'mi
(O Dur fort Mo/rrt<aJ -CourtcJY o/&* fcgrefofu* ßore&u -
Camoens' Garden in Macao.
Two hills stretching to the sea so
as to form a charming bay, and be
tween them an ancient, half-Spanish,
wholly southern city; its roofs tufted
with verdure, rising one above anoth
er on terraced slopes; its houses with
their once gay tints all faded, basking
in peaceful decrepitude in a sunshine
like that of June; the town fast
asleep; the harbor silting up; the
walls crumbling; the Iron gratings
rusting ; the pavements turning green ;
the gables nodding like old gray heads,
tired of listening to the same old sto
ries—such is Macao, the Far Eastern
outpost of the Portuguese traders of
the Sixteenth century, the Monte Car
lo of the Orient, and one of Portugal's
few remaining possessions In Pacific
waters.
Macao is situated on the west side
of the Pearl river. Forty miles across
Is Hongkong ; eighty-eight miles to the
north lies Canton, seat of the South
China government. Macao was found
ed in 1557. Prior to 1887 there ap
pears to have been no documentary
evidence of a formal cession of this
territory, the Portuguese claiming,
however, that they received It as a
reward for destroying the horde of
Mongolian pirates that harried the
southern coast of China; and the re
mains of the old barrier across the
narrow neck of land separating thç
peninsular town from the rest of the
Island of Heung Chan, and once guard
ed by Chinese soldiers, gave color to
the Portuguese claim. However, all
doubts were laid to rest In 1887 when
formal cession was made by China to
the Portuguese.
Macao's Rise and Fall.
So marvelous was the growth and
prosperity of this Portuguese settle
ment in Its youth that It exc'ted the
envy of the early Dutch traders who
In 1622 attempted Its conquest The
spot where the Dutch leader was
killed by a round shot from Monte
fort, which wrote finis to that at
tempt, Is now marked by a monument.
Macao continued to be a flourishing
mart up to 1841, the British East In
dia company and the Dutch company
meanwhile obtaining a foothold there.
The British free trade propaganda of
the "Forties" excited a demand for a
free port at Macao, to which the Por
tuguese demurred. , Great Britain then
secured the Hongkong concession,
made that a free port in 1845, and
the decline of Macao as an entrepot
dates from that year.
Not only Is Macao the site of the
first European claim made on Chinese
soil, but it has cultural ties with Eu
rope closer knit than the political re
lationships of controverted areas to
the north. It contains the oldest ruin
In China that Is associated with Eu
rope, and the tamarind and banyan
shade the gardens where the Por
tuguese Chauser, Camoens, composed
half of the Lusiads, celebrating the
discoveries of the Portuguese explor
ers who opened up for the West the
secrets of the East. It is one of the
half-dozen of the world's great epics.
Camoens' Place of Exllç.
Luis de Camoens, the star of Lusl
tanlan poetry, became enamored of
Catharina d'Atayada, lady-In-honor to
Queen Catharina of Portugal, which
so enraged the king that he banished
the poet to Macao, about 1567, where
he remained for five years as admin
istrator of the effects of deceased per
sons—a melancholy office for a poet
and lover. Returning in 1572, his ves
sel was wrecked, his small savings
were lost, but the poem which has
been translated into every civilized
language was saved to an appreciative
posterity; A monument to Camoens
marks the spot in the grotto where he
composed his noble epic.
Macao has snoozed peacefully away
on Its Island In late years while con
troversies have raged around the hand
ful of other foreign holdings on the
Chinese coast. But recently the gov
ernment of Southern China is reported
to have demanded that there be a
"cleanup" In the city, a procedure,
which If carried out would entail rec
ognition of the Southern China govern
ment as well as acceptance of its right
to rule in what has long been consid
ered Portuguese territory.
Once in Macao the traveler may re
main to contemplate an out-of-thö
way shrine of European history. But
that is not why most folk board the
daily boat from Hongkong to go there.
It is a summer resort for the Canton
ese because of its exposure to the
cooling monsoons in mid-summer.
Opium smugglers and gamblers. In re
cent years, have loomed large among
Its transients. Formerly the Chinese
coolie traffic also had a headquarter»
here. Within a century its waters may
have warranted the characterization
of one traveler who called them "the
most dangerous waters of the world
from a police standpoint," and added
"a river trip is spiced with the risk
of piratical attack."
Revenues From Gambling.
The ideas of Henry George and oth
er tax theorists have found a niggard
soil in Macao, whose fiscal policy is
simplicity itself. Poo-chee and fan
tan provide the revenues of the city.
It has been said that half the minted
pieces of the Far East find their way
sooner or later to the gambling boards
of Macao, and the old Rix dollar, the
Mexican peso, and the American dime
are clinked upon the tables of the
jeunesse doree, or of the 'rickshaw
coolies and harbor riff-raff of the town,
while a daily flow of men, women and
dollars crosses the estuary from Hong
kong to Macao and pours Into the
hells of the Roa do Jogo, or gambling
street.
Fan-tan is the favorite game, but It
is nothing like the card game of that
name known to Americans. The Chi
nese croupiers sit enthroned before a
square marked at the corners with
the numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4. The banker
reclines behind a grating, smoking a
long pipe. Overhead Is a gallery run
ning all around the room and forming
a sort of ceiling, pierced only by a
hole the size of the table. From this
gallery the bets are made, and the
stakes are - alternately let down and
drawn up, accompanied by the sound
of drawling minstrelsy.
The croupier takes a handful of
small coins and covers them with a
reversed bowl, while money is laid
on one of the four numbers. When
the betting has ceased he lifts the
bowl and separates the coins with his
wand. Then he counts them by fours,
and the remainder, or the last four,
if there be no remainder, represents
the winning number. Each hazard Is
a one-to-three wager, and the banks
pay on that basis, after deducting the
house percentage. A number of these
licensed gambling dens, graded accord
ing to the limit of wager allowed, pay
the revenues of the city of Macao.
Attractive to Travelers.
Present day Macao is not marred
for the casual traveler by either its
flair for fan-tan or its thriving trade
in opium. The latter Is shipped away
to wreak its havoc; the former brings
the bizarre and the adventurous. The
city of today is one of the few Far
Eastern coast towns which have not
been caught In the resistless current
of commercial progress, and for that
reason it presents some Interesting
studies to lovers of the picturesque.
He who lands from a steamer is
captivated by its blend of Portuguese
and Chinese people, by pagoda and
western church, and when the sum
mons of hunger leads him to a hotel
that has been called the cleanest and
most beautifully situated In the Or
ient, the contrast persists. He may
order the famous Portuguese colares
with his yellow water chestnut pasties,
and choose either ultra-accidental
game dinners or pudding of coagulated
duck's blood and sugar-preserved bam
boo shoots. There are but 4,000 Por
tuguese resident there, but they rep
resent a four-century impress that
their nationality has made upon the
total population of about 75,000.
After dinner the visitor may stroll
along the Praya Grande, both the
Broadway and the Riverside drive of
Macao. Having shopped and slummed,
he finally will be led to catch the
deeper romance of the city in the
grotto where the poets have carved
lines of praise to the one-eyed soldier
poet who wrote the glory of farthest
West Europe on an island of nearly
farthest East China.
H. C, L. Pinches King George.
Owing to increased expenses, King
George has found it necessary during
the past few years to supplement the
income he receives from the state out
of his private resources.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the relail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacture end.
But co-operatiu» -or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of' all, are owned equally and controlied,collectively.
No individual greed or desire tor special privilege can beneht at the
expense of the needy. „ , . . . -,
the dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highlandt of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the county »est cf Verasn Parish. It is about 15 3~.c:
feom the Sabine River, 100 mile* from Shreveport, and nearly 300
few Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract. '
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
in any section of the United States. No sickness hat been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building ; dozens of small houses ; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make ils community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life a« does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience pröves that garden truck of almost any kind, many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, sugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and other crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evaporator house
and 'cured.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pure sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Better than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modem brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed. The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the behefit of the
community, are the following;
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant; bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry- /
ing department ; hospital ; hotel ; swimming pool ; theater : and at
various other seasons other work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
fish desires in favor of collective need.
^ ett Cfr-cporateG» as* üiey Cw&ev« m co o p e r atio n
but it takes careful study and persistent training to eliminate the
competitive spirit which has been drilled into them from youth.
Thus, the Colony divides co-operators into two general classes: One
class may join the Colony and co-operate with their fellows com
pletely: The other class desires to live near a co-operative commun
ity, yet own their own land, tools, etc., desiring private ownership in
these things. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre.
I he Colony , s now in a position to interest both. Those who wish
to come into the Colony may do so on the terms of membership given
m another place on this page. Those who wish to own land may
buy a Co-operative Farm, participating to an extent i n the co-operative
advantage, of the Colony. They may market their crop, v^h the
Colony, enjoy the social advantage,, and marty of the educational
advantages, with the privilege of exchanging land to be applied o„ a
membershtp if desired and if acceptable as member,. The Co-oper
ative Colony will retain about 5.000 acre, for itself. The idea is to
build up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
The colony employ, agents, but doe, n ot authorize them to close
any transactions. Memberships should be taken out through the
Membership department, Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville, La
in thn e C nterari. WaD N metnber , S - II wan ! s P e0 P le ,0 become interest«*»
m «1 k one make, any private profit. It i, the opportun
med of - 11 is now an established
TW ! , . yOUr P f' ,0 , eX ' en<1 ,he fie,d oi influence?
All ZI? T \ V,5ll V Colony shou!d get off ,he ,rain at Stable*.
AH trains stop here. You may not be able to purchase a tick*
to this pace; you may have to buy to Leesville, but you can get
a ticket from Leesville here for ten cent, without getting off the
NoHf k eet ,ralnS! C0,0ny ,own " the railroad
Notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so
£r s srtrîiT art it-=
Llano Co-operative Colony
leesville, la.
—Advertisement.