PLANNEp ELEVEN YEARS AGO
CARRYING IT OUT NOW
Just to remind those guileless indi
viduals who are paying little attention
to what is going on around them and
Tail to realize that there is a combin
ation of wealth and power bent on the
^destruction of present-day trade union
ism, we have delved a little into oast
history. Under date of July 8, 1911,
n paper in Los Angeles, Cal., called
the Peoples Paper, reprinted an ar
ticle from the Bankers' Magazine, that
Teads as follews:
"Wé must proceed with caution and
içuard well every move made for the
lower orders, for the people are al
ready showing signs of restless com
Tnotion. Prudence will, therefore', die
late a policy of apparently yielding to
the popular will until all our plans are
so far consummated that we can de
clare our designs without fear of any
organized resistance. The Farmers'
Alliance and socialist organizations in
the United States should be carefully
-watched by our trusted men, and we
must take immediate steps to control
these organizations in our proiect to
disrupt them. At the coming Omaha
-convention our men must attend and
direct its movement, or else there will
T)e set on foot such antagonism to our
designs as may require force to over
come.
This, at the present time, would be
■premature. We are not yet ready for
such crisis. Capital must protect it
■self in every possible manner through
combination and legislation.
"The courts must be called to our aid
and debts must be collected: bonds
and mortgages must be foreclosed as
Tapidlv as possible.
"When, through the process of law,
the common people have lost their
homes, they will be more tractable
and easily governed through the in
fluence of the strong arm of govern
ment applied by a central power of
imperial wealth under the control of
leading financiers. A peonle without
Tiomes will not quarrel with their rul
History repeats itself in regular cv
cles. This truth is well known among
t>ur principal men now encased in
forming an IMPERIALISM OF CAPI
TAL TO GOVERN THE WORLD.
"While they are doing this the oeonle
must be kept in a condition of polit
ical antagonism.
"The Question of tariff reform must
be ' urged through the organization
its
THE RE-BUILDING OF LIANO
Need of Hotel and Other Buildings Daily
Becomes More Urgent.-New Electric
Light and Power Plant Provid
ed For.-Next Is New Hotel
Llano Colony will soon have a new
electric light and power plant, a visit
ing comrade having advanced the en
tire amount for its purchase and erec- •
tion.
We now have half the necessary
funds for the first brick residence build
ing, the elevation and floor plans for
which are shown here and about which
we have been talking for some time.
This building is to be only a part
(one of the wings) of our complete
hotel arrangement, which will include
several such buildings around a central
unit which will house the kitchens, din
ing rooms, cafeterias, library and read
ing rooms.
It-is estimated that this first brick
building would cost $60,000 to have it
built by contract. But by building it
with our own labor and almost entire
ly out of materials from the natural
resources on Llano laud, the cash out
lay is proportionately small.
The workers have built all the fine
hotels, but few have aspired to live in
them, and our object is not only to in
spire the desire to do so, but also to
offer the opportunity to the workers.
There are many co-operators who
are not yet prepared to take up their
LLa
in HB
-HI IFR.
ffl
RLE
ED
m
Sff
[ELU
Bffl
permanent abode with us in Newllano
City, and for these comrades rooms are
reserved at $250 each, and the patron
may come at any time and occupy the
room as long as he desires.
This plan offers advantages to those
who plan to spend the winter in the
South, as by the reservation of a room
they can live with us the greater part
of three winters—250 days in all—be
fore their investment is used up. By
living with us, we mean that you will
be entitled to eat three meals a day
with us. We will not lose anything on
this arrangement. Our present hotel
rate is $1.00 per day for room and
board, and there is no reason for rais
ing the price, as food is produced too
cheaply to necessitate that —■ with the
wastes and profits of capitalism aUnL
iched.
Any balance owe n eo-opwm wt «
room reservation may at any time be
credited on a full membership appli
cation, and we earnestly invite all co
operators to visit us at any time they
are able to do so and familiarize them
selves with our achievements and our
aims. If one can spehd only a week
or two, he will in that short time be
able to learn much as to our resourc
es and the soundness of our plans and
the wonderful possibilities of the co
operative efforts of those who produce
the wealth of the world but have it
taken from them in a thousand forms
of profit, interest« aad
»w mnm undertaken to explain in
the columns of The Llano Colonist, but
we are always glad to answer questions
—always glad to hear from those who
are interested in the progress of our
work. And if you have $250 that you
can spare—we are sure that it can
never be used so effectively as just
at present. It is an investment and not
a donation that we are asking you to
make, and you can apply it on a com
plete membership or use it for vaca
tion purposes at any time you please.
M
TT
M JH
=n J
ixx/4
.Virata —/ 1 ^
V
The Electric Plant Problem Has Been Solved.
The Next Big Thing in the Line of Construction
Is The New Hotel, and We Are Half Way
Toward Starting It. NOW Is the Time YOU
Can Help Most. Let us Hear From You.
ToKcW
—n—
=£3=
=a=
Write for more information and tell us what you think of our work.
Llano Co-operative Colony
Leesville, La.
known as the democratic party, and
the question of protection with recipro
city must be forced to view through
the republican party.
"By thus dividing the voters we can
get them to expend their energies in
fighting over questions of no impor
tance to us except as teachers to lead
thç common herd. Thus by direct ac
tion we can secure all that has been
generously planned, and success
fully accomplished
Oppressive court injunctions, the de
mand in some quarters for an exten
sion of the tyrannical Kansas can't
strike law to other states, incorpora
tion çf trade unions, etc., are only ma
terial for another chapter which is de
sired by the hidden power behinl the
throne. Every member of organized
labor should read and keép in mind
the foregoing statement, printed in a
magazine circulating exclusively among
bankers.
THE AMERICAN COLLEGE
(By The Federated Pre«)
1. The average American college is
a plutocratic hierarchy. The men at
the top—the trustees—are the same
men who run the banks, packing hous
es, and the department -stores, and
they take their business psychology in
to the trustee meetings with them.
2. The average American college is
an academic dictatorship -—teachers
ruling; students obeying.
3. The atmosphere in the colleges is
one of tolerant indifference to "aca
demic" questions of right and wrong,
and of stern determination to win "suc
cess" on the world's terms.
—Scott Nearing.
BRUTAL, INSATIABLE GREED
WOULD STARVE WORKERS
(By The Federated Press)
Weed, Cal. — The strike of lumber
workers against a 10 percent wage cut
and a two-hour longer work-day has
spread to other parts of northern Cal
ifornia and southern Oregon. Railroad
men, farmers and merchants are favor
ing the strikers, and a soup kitchen
has been started in their behalf. The
proposed wage cut would reduce skill
ed labor to 35 cents an hour ,and un
skilled to 24 cents. Weed, Dorris, Mc
Cloud and other affected towns are
"company towns," where all necessar
ies must be purchased at exorbitant
rates.
THE CONQUERING MARCH
OF RIGOROUS THINKING
Comparison of separate instances of
phenomena, inquiry into the processes
of their manifestation, discovery, ex
perimentation and demonstration, have
been the avenues by which all scien
tific knowledge of mankind has been
acquired. This method is called induc
tive reasoning, an operation of the con
scious mind of man, and its initiation
marks the dividing line between super
stition and the dawn of intelligence in
human affairs.
A student of the mental science class
at Newllano on April 2, having heard
that all the ills of mankind could be
traced back to error and deliberate mis
information, inquired of the reader of
the lesson, how it would be possible
for any one to think right, so as to
escape the penalties of wrong thinking.
The answer was, that with respect to
human fellow beings, observance of
the golden rule, both in its affirmative
and negative aspects, in the actions
commended and the actions forbidden,
would prove entirely satisfactory. But
in dealing with things definite know
ledge of their proper utility would fill
the bill. And it must be knowledge
that has direct connection with every
day requirements of human existence
here and now.
The great scheme of the despoilers
of the producers at all times has been
to divert the attention of their victims
from the present condition and re
quirements, and get them tangled up in
all sorts of sophistries that are abso
lutely foreign and non-essential to
their mundane needs and interests.
Life is called a school, and if it is
people must give attention and learn
the lessons that the present plane of
existence imposes. Everyone must
learn to be useful and helpful for this
is the essence of love, which Drum
mond calls the greatest thing in the
world. A teacher of old claimed that
"Love is the fulfilling of the law," or
the observance of the principle of con
ducting oneself and acting in accord
ance with the processes' of social har
mony and social economy. Love, then,
is the essence of brotherhood, and the
proof that one is imbued with the sen
timent of love, of brotherhood, is ocu
larly, visibly, experimentally demon
by the willingness to labor for those
for whom love is professed. Jesus of
Nazareth is credited with the statement
thp.t "Greater love hath no man than
that he devote his life to the service,
a
of
well-being and upliftment of his breth
ren.'' But in addition to willingness to
labor for the members of a fellowship,
those professing love in truth and sin
cerity are credited with the Apostle
Paul in the 13th chapter of the Corin
thians, fourth verse, as displaying cer
tain other characteristics by which they
can be recognized as follows: "Love
suffereth long and is kind; love envi
eth not ; love vaunteth not itself, is not
puffed up, doth not behave itself un
seemly, seeketh not its own, is not pro
voked, taketh no account of evil; re
joiceth not in unrighteousness, but re
joiceth with the truth; beareth all
things, believeth all things, hopeth all
things, endureth all things, love never
faileth."
Knowledge must always precede
faith in the practiçe of brotherhood,
as well as in the practice of anything
else. Sentimental protestations, mere
lipservice have no practical value at
all. When we do useful work and help
to supply the food, clothing, housing
education, entertainments, and ethical
necessaries of our fellows, that alone
supplies conclusive proof of the sin
cerity of love professed.
Egotistical aspiration to be in th?
limelight, for vainglory, for a para
sitical position or existence at the ex
pense of workers anywhere, on • the
other hand, is positive proof of sel
fishness, of iniquity, of disregard of
every principle of right, justice and so
cial harmony.
The character of an individual, of
a community or a nation will deter
mine the conduct, the institutions, and
condition of affairs prevailing. People
are either social, unsocial or anti-so
cial.
When will progressive people ever
learn that universal practical experi
mentation is the process of human ad
vancement. Even as the first models
of every invention have been found
crude and imperfect after the original
test was made, so' must all creeds, phi
losophies, religions and institutions be
considered nothing more than crude
models until through test and experi
mentation they are brought to an effi
cient working basis.
It seems strange that, while one
would acknowledge that the first mo
del of a comparatively simple washing
machine or a sulky plow can never be
thoroughly efficient, they think that a
complex philosophy involving millions
of varying effects in human society can
be thought out in every detail by some
ancient person sitting in a cave or un
der a tree or working at the carpenter's
S=gri.-~*"3aK.
bench, and be correct and complete
in its first theoretical model.
"Were the business of production
and distribution, of architecture, agri
culture, and mechanical invention ail
confined and \limited to the blighting
forms of antiquated creeds, all made
to fear experimentation, as has been
done in the field of ethics, manner»
and customs, we should still be strug
gling in the dark ages.
'Thanks to the daring of a few, we
have already attained progress in many
fields through experimentation, and so
much have we reaped by this method
that we know that there can be no pro
gress wihout experimentation — that
those who have dreamed, theorized
and speculated are now gradually be
ing dislodged from every position of in
fluence by the life force of advancing
humanity.
'To live under free institutions with
a guarantee of freedom and equality,
under the ideals of human brotherhood,
under the edùcational system called
inductive," designed to develop, stim
ulate and vitalize a social individuality
and consciousness, means that all our
mutual affairs of our personal exist
ence, our food, clothing, shelter, and
relations with each other, so long as
we do not invade the rights of others
and prevent them from having the
same liberty as we, is the one true rule
of life, the one sure road to happiness,
the one philosophy that can insure the
highest human physical and social pro
gress. Judging social problems from
the standpoint of «elfish privilege, is
the cause of all error in theory and
practice and this shows how important
it is to do rational, accurate thinking.
ESCAPE FROM PLUTOCRATIC
AMERICA TO GO TO RUSSIA
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — All "production units"
organized by the Society for Technical
Aid to Soviet Russia, 100 W. 40th St.,
will be admitted to Russia without
question, the society has been inform
ed. The notification came in the form
of a cablegram from L. C. Martins at
Moscow.
Groups of shoemakers, farmers, me
chanics and engineers, with full equip
ment, already have departed under the
auspices of the society and other
groups of farmers, tailors, shoemakers,
electro-mechanics, and structural work
ers have sent representatives.
JUDICIAL PROSTITUTION
(By The Federated Pre«»)
Washington, — For the first -lisi
a committee of congress has heard
shameful story of bow the polit'
prisoners of the world war were m__.
—how lynch law was applied to the Î.
W. W., and the Oklahoma tenant far
mers' organizations, how the appellafe
courts have held that ihe charges of
conspiracy to commit overt acts of in
dustrial character were unsupported by
evidence, and how th« î \ 3 men still in
prison for the expression of their opin
ions were sent and kept there through
public hysteria, promoted by the en
emies of organized labor and civil
tv.
In mingled resentment, doubt and
political anxiety the house judiciary
committee listened throughout Thurs
day's hearing, conducted by Albert De
Silver, director of the American Civil
Liberties union, upon R cd. Meyer Lon
don's resolution, asking President Hard
ing to grant amnesty to all the remain
ing political prisoners of the govern
ment. Lawyers all, they ignored party
lines as between republican and demo
crat in their efforts to find some ex
cuse, in the findings of the apellate
courts or in the unsupDorted claims of
the attorney general, for a refusal to
intervene to put an end to the scandal
of these men's imprisonment.
Major Sidney Lanier, scion of one
of the oldest aristocratic families of
South Carolina, did make an impres
sion even upon such members as Her
sey of Maine and Walsh of Massachu
setts, when he told of his search of
the records of the Chicago I. W. W.
trial as an officer of the military intel
ligence service, and of his finding in
all the testimony in five months of ijsat
trial not one particle of evidence of
any overt act on the part of any of the
100 men who were found guilty by
the jury.
100% PATRIOTS ACTIVE
Chicago. — Admitting that they
would ^import more strikebreakers in
their open shop" campaign against
the building trades unions, the Citi
zens' Committee to Enforce thè Landis
Award told the city council committee
that they had already 5000 non-union
building trades workmen at work in
Chicago. The 200 imported union
workmen who charge they were brot
in through false advertisements by the
citizens' committee stating that there
was no labor trouble in Chicago are
being cared for at the city's expense.