THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page I)
cent rains it has made extra work for
our laundry crew, but both Mr. and
Mrs. Beavers, with their crew, Mrs
Kemp, Cox, McConuel and Maschick,
with some assistance from Mrs. Nash,
are able to cope with the situation.
More laundry is now Bfeing done than
ever bofere and the equipment is en
tirely inadequate for the quantity of
work that passes thru this industry,
This will be offset by a new building
and equipment, we hope, soon. The
print shop put the Colonist in the mail
to^ay and are working on the Co-oper
ator. The magazine is somewhat de
layed because some of our regular con
tributors are tardy in sending in their
work. Cantrell tells me that he is
afraid he will not be able to put out
a May No. of the Colonist, because
of the lack of help. Often we are crit
icized for things that get into our pa
pers, but if you knew the rush that al
ways prevails at this shop you Would
wonder how Gleeser, Buck, Cantrell
and Newman with the assistance of
Rose B,, Mrs. C., and some of the
school children are able to turn off the
amount of work they do. We certain
}y need help at the print shop. We al
so need and need badly a shoe maker, -
several brick layers, carpenters, and
lots of farmers. In fact we need both
men and women who can do any use
ful work to almost an unlimitel amount.
Comrade Gayer, the inaugurator of the
DOLLAR-UP CLUB, is sure on the job.
The last three days' mail has brot us
several new members for the club, thru
his efforts. Homer Loutrell is champ
ing at the bit to get his whole electri
cal plant moved and going. He has
moved the apparatus over to what used
to be the tool shed, and it begins to
look like Homer is starting opposition
to the store. The algebra and agricul
ture classes took up the greater part
of the evening after supper, and it is
a real pleasure and inspiration to see
the large numbers of colonists who go
to these and other classes. Truly,
Newllano is a great school that is bound
•to attract the best minds of our coun
try. Those who fail to attend meet
ings and classes; who are not interest
el in advancing themselves and others
are missing a great opportunity. And
I believe that there is not a single col
onist that does not attend some of these
classes or educational meetings.
I
' Saturday, April I. — Another very
beautiful day and everybody seems to
be trying to see just how much work :
he or she can lay behind them. The
children are my special care on Satur
days, and we generally lay plans for
this day which hover around, the swim
ming pool about noon. Needless to
say, some work always precedes these
swims and thqjlunch, and I am usually
the only delinquent one in the bunch.
My bosses conspire against me on these
days and seem to find so much work
around the office that I only get out
to the pool in time to eat. But when
I get there, lunch is ready and then
I grow happy.again. We eat; later
we take a swim and have a real good
time at water sports; then back to the
Colony for more work. To-days work
was to make garden ground fit for
Irish potatoes and plant half of them,
this April 1st in the light of the moon.
Now, in two weeks we will plant the
other half in the dark of the moon,
and later we kids will let you know the
results. Also we planted more than
three dozen rhubarb plants which were
donated by outside friends. John Stave
from California, joined the 125-CLUB
and the Colony, where he wishes to
stay. Comrade Stave is a cabinet
maker and carpenter, and he started
work at once. Comrades Mrs. Cryer
and Mrs. Wright have opened up the
long-expected and wishel-for cloth
making establishment. Yes, on the
old hand methods. Most of our indus-;
tries have been started in this way, and,
then grow to the machinery and fac
tory stage. So be it with this one.
They are now carding and spinning
cotton, and later the weaving of cloth
will be done and we shall be reliev
ed of the clothes-buying burden. This
fall when the sheep are added to our
herds, we will lay the foundation for
making wolen clothing. I suppose la
ter someone will raise silk worms and
we will make clothes from it, ,too.
There is nothing too good for the work
ers, so why any limit to what we wish
to have? Well, my every-day duds
suit me for the time being, so "we
should work"—and we don't. We
children had a good time to-day and
closed the day by going to the danc
ing school at seven-thirty and having
a good time at the dance until nearly
eleven oclock. A farewell to Mrs.
Blair, Mr. and Mrs. Cox and Mr. Kunz
who are forced by circumstances to
leave us for" a time. We shall be glad
to see them return as soon as they
can make it convenient to do so.. Now,
where is that shoe-maker to take Com
rade Cox's place at the shoe shop?
Where is the laundry helper to fill Mrs.
Cox's place and who is going to hem
stitch the table linen and boss me
around in Mother Blair's place? I give
it up and go to bed and see what the
morrow brings forth.
Sunday, April 2.—I feel like throw
ing a brick at Ole; he routs me out to
take a two days' auto hike, and I do
not like to be roused out of my little
rut. We took Loutrell and Kling, with
us, drove first to Longville, where we
left Kling to take the auto load of
electric wire back to the Colony. Well
Kling "delivered the message to Gar
cia" and we drove on to Lake Charles,
Orange, and Longville. No, of course,
not for fun—who would think of such
a trip and call it fun ? We are still af
ter more equipment for our electric
plant, and we looked at boilers, en
gines, machinery, and water pipe nu
til I felt I should blow up or become
an electron (whatever that may be).
You see, we had money given to us by
a visiting comrade, with which to buy
an electric plant and a good one, so
we are just trying to find what we want
and need the more. Lots of sawmills
are shutting down as well as other
plants and we want boilers, engines and
alternating current generators. Yes,
we want two alternating current gen
erators, one from thirty to fifty K.V.A.
then later we want one several times
larger. Do you know of such a gener
ator to be had, that is good? We
want a three phase if possible and it
must be first class and cheap, too. So
speak up if you know , of one. Also
- „ . . • . . ,
We ^ l ° mStal1 a ~ Water works ^
tem this summer. So we are in the
market for about two miles of 4-inch
water pipe for the purpose of piping
the water from the big spring to a re
servoir at the Colony. These two ne
cessary improvements will furnish
many home comforts that most of us
had to give up when we came from the
city to the pioneer life of the Colony.
As we do without some of these con
veniences right now, we see in the not
far-distant future all of them in use
here. Our hard struggle is over; the
world's has just begun. I mean by that
we have gone thru a pioneer stage,
both physical and mental that the fu
ture holds out to all mankind, and you
will have to go thru it some day. The
physical you can probably avoid by
coming here with us or by joining in
such a co-operative at some other loca
tion; the mental pioneering you can
not avoid, unless you have already
passed thru that stage. There is a big
lesson to be learned before most of us
are ready to co-operate with others.
It is not an easy thing to lay aside our
old false ideas and ideals and take on
the new. Our suspicion, greed and
jealousy, planted and grown into a ma
ture crop, is not so easily weeded out;
yet they must be before we are ready
: f or complete co-operation. I sometimes
shudder when I think of what the
world must go thru before the brother-,
hood of man is established. And I at
the same time realize that it can all be
brought about thru the practical me
thods we are employing here. The
question is are you ready for it? If
not, don't try it until you are ready
to cast everything else aside, burn your
bridges behind you, and direct ail your
energy to bring about your ideal, the
co-operative commonwealth. It is the
only worth-while job I know of and
there is nothing that can tempt most of
us away from it. Just think for a min
ute what else there is beTore us worth
half so much. We are growing to it,
and we are striving to make the path
easier for you, our comrades, who will
come later and at the same time we are
anxious to make our demonstration a
big one and soon. That's why hours,
energy, money, or anything else does
not count, as compared to our every
day accomplishments in co-operation.
¥ * * *
Monday, April 3. — Plowing was
begun again at the Lamb place, where
we expect to raise our corn this year,
and Comrade Smock and wife will
there to look after the place
The tractors are hauling wood and
making haste while the weather is fa
vorable. John Hoover, our fence man«.
told me that we now have 750 acres
of land under fence and 14 miles of
fencing built. Most of this fencing is
of woven wire and put up in perman
ent places. Comrade Coleman recent
ly sent away and ordered some special
trees. The mulberry and Custard ap
ple trees are here, and he has planted
them. . Now, I never ate a custard ap
ple, but if they are anything like cus
tard pie, I want to say right now that
Comrade Coleman has my everlasting
thanks. Mulberries grow wild down
here and his new varieties are sure
of success. A box of books just ar
rived from Comrades N. L. and E. N.
Clarke, of Virginia. Many new and
useful books are being added to our
library and other useful things that are
donated by our friends all help to build
up a permanent parent colony that will
in time back its off-spring. This must
be our procedure* and will be followed
out as rapidly as we are able to fin
ance the project. To-day, while at
Lake Charles, a big lumber company
offered us thousands of acres of good
land and a town already build, with
city water and other necessary im
provements, almost at our own price.
There is no place in the world where
so many big openings are now open to
us as here in Louisiana. I know of
thousands of acres of good land for
agriculture, also hard wood timber,
-and three towns with good improve
ments. Don't you see how easy it will
be for us to establish large groups in
these places, just as soon as we can
raise the funds to keep up our pur
chase payments. One thing we are al
most free from and that is paying in
terest. What little we do pay is to our
own comrades, and doesn't amount to
much. This Colony is a great school,
where co-operation is being taught and
practiced; where men. and women are
being trained to point the way to the
future co-operative commonwealth. It
is a necessary schooling to prepare our
selves for a practical method of estab
lishing a civilization that can and will
function in the interest of all human
kind. What difference what others say
about us when we know we are doing
the best we can and are sure our ideal
is right? Justice for all with no favor
itism to any. It is not hard to get, if
the individual will educate himself to
service and not ask for more than he
expects to give. Can you do it? If
you can, you are ready for co-opera
tion.. If you can't, your path will be
hard in the very near future until you
learn the game. Honesty of purpose is
the first necessary thing to become a
real co-operator; without the motive
being right, the individual can not ad
just himself to a right condition in so
ciety. This has often been proved by
those who have left us, sometimes in
the heat of anger; others who have
ben wrongly advised; some who have
allowed false ideas to take hold of
them for the moment—but these peo
ple nearly always come back, or at
least hold true to the ideal, and some
day will come back or at least help us
in carrying out our general plans.
These are the ones whose motives are
right. The other type who are looking
for self-betterment, or their own self
agrandizement, take a fighting attitude
and seek out every little fault to mag
nify and advertise to others who are
not in sympathy with our ideals at all.
We are always puzzled to know what to
do with such cases; we do not wish to
work a hardship on anyone, and yet
these persons sometimes stoop to al
most any depths in their desire to "rule
or ruin." Your motive is the determin
ing factor as to whether you will be a
co-operator or not. Those who are
still greedy, suspicious and jealous
be easier,
should conquer their fault before com
ing here. We have too much work to
do at present to take the time of ad
justing your personal faults. Yes! We
are willing to spend the time if it will
do any good; but the individual is the
only one who can really do the job. As
our economic condition becomes bet
ter, we know this self-adjustment will
Tuesday, April 4. — This week's
diary has been hard to write as many
other duties as well as unlooked-for
responsibilities have fallen upon the
shoulders of "ye lady reporter," and
she heartily begs your kind indulgence
if she has garbled the job in any way.
Sometimes these things must be done,
and they are done only thru a forced
condition which is unnatural, and are
likely to be a little off-colored. So,
again, pardon for this week's effort.
Now, to you, my comrade, who are in
terested in what we are doing, are you
really interested in seeing a new civil
ization started? Do you believe in the
brotherhood of man? If so, what are
you willing to do to bring it about?
Think for a minute what this group of
people are doing. They are giving all
their time, their energy, their finances
and many personal luxuries, in order
to carry out their ideal. They are not
asking any one to insure their future
success or happiness. They are striv
ing to make a world success of this pro
ducing co-operative scheme, that all
may see a better life and enjoy it.
Now, if you believe it, why don't you
back us now with your finances (all
of which will be invested in product
ive property'), and later you owe the
members here you physical assistance
as well, in carrying out your ideals.
Comrades, this is no idle appeal. Cap
italism is breaking down, banks are
failing, business firms of long standing
are now financial wrecks, that a few
years ago thought themselves financial
giants. Labor is being deprived of its
rights to work, our human brothers
and sisters are being dispossessed and
starved on every hand. With land
and tools upon which and with which
to work all of these miseries can be
avoided. We are working to relieve
this condition through practical dem
onstration of co-operation in its true
form. You can help to make this de
monstration a speedy and far-reaching
affair. Will you do it? How, you
ask? In sending your spare cash to us
to invest in land and tools for the use
of those who will come to labor with
We must provide the necessaries
of life—food, clothing and shelter,—
and, „at the same time, expand our op
erations in order to take in those who
want to join us later; thousands of
people would come now if we were in
a position to take care of them. And
here is where you can help. Join the
DOLLAR-UP CLUB and let us make
this movement a national and even an,
international club. Get subscribers to
our publications and let people read
Readers' Column
AN OLD COLONIST SPEAKS
Dear Comrades and AS:— .
•I thought I would drop you a few
lines and let you know I am still back
here in the Buckeye State. You can
bank on me paying balance,on my
land by May 1st, as far as I know now.
[He has paid $160.] I sure like the
new Colonist—just like a letter from
home. The Diary keeps one posted
of the work from day to day. I think
you have the right idea in putting it
up squarely to the prospects, so they
about a real solution of their problems.
Buy a room at our new hotel and let
us continue to make good homes for
those who are working for this great
ideal. Buy land, if you wish, and hold
it for future use (not speculation) ;
take out y an installment membership,
and send in whatever spare cash you
have from month to month; buy a
membership and pay for it in full if
you have the cash, and if you can not
come for a year or two, send some one
else in your place who wants to come
but has no money to come on; lend
us your spare cash and let us put it
to constructive use in the interest of
your ideal. These are the best ways to
help and we want you to do all you
can and do it now, while the big op
portunity is here to do it. It is a
world problem and it will take a world
of determination and thought to do it.
We know the way now and want your
support. In the name of future human
justice you and all the world should
do ALL YOU CAN to point the right
way. May 1st is approaching and we
want $24,000 on that date to make our
annual land purchase. What will you
do toward this purchase by that time?
To accomplish your ideal you must do
all you can at all times for it, an dwe
want you with us in this movement.
Are you with us now?
EAGLE MIKADO"
Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made in five grades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Llano 125 Club
Is YOUR Club
Don't merely WATCH It Grow - Get In and Help!
Do you intend some day to make Llano your home?
Do you want a comfortable dwelling and the conveniences of a modern city
when you come?
Of course you do.
Then join the LLANO 125-CLUB immediately. This club is YOUR club.
Its purpose is to furnish the cash with which to build a place for YOU. We
will do the pioneering; we will do the actual work; but you must supply the
necessary cash.
125,000 Dollars will completely finance this Colony. It will give us com
plete ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with which to
u 0Ur " lode i rn Clty " II W1 " 8 ive steady employment to several thousand per
sons and lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will
permit us to admit people who are good co-operators and are willing to give
their labor and moral support to our undertaking, but have not the money
with which to buy a membership.
THISw I p" 1 Tk 5 ""il 0 " 5 u P!ed8e themselves t0 furnis ^ 1.000 Dollars each
THIS YEAR. This w,ll enable us to do in ONE YEAR what is would take sev
eral years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with
your help we can do it much sooner.
th n a w n0 Al PaSe n r W u!. f L ind a liSt ° f th0Se who have already joined
Club, and this will be published frequently, so that you may note its pro
gress. But don t merely WATCH it grow—get in and MAKE it grow.
On May 1,1922, Llano Colony will have been eight years in existence
an within the last two years we have made more progress than durin- the
previous six years. lne
What will we do in the next two years?
THAT IS UP TO YOU!
Let the Colonics Hear from YOU today
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEES VILLE, LOUISIANA
know what to expect. No use going
around the bush about the work, etc.
Tell them what we have and what we
expect of them, and it will appeal to
the REAL co-operator. You sure have
made some progress since I left the
Colony.
I think of you all and the Colony
every day. I send nothing but good
thought-waves out to the Colony. I on
ly wish I were situated to go back, but
can't just now tell when. You see, my
father is almost an invalid and he needs
my Jielp here now. But I hope and ex
pect to someday get back home. I
see you have some propaganda leaf
lets; you can send me some of each
of them if you will; I will try to place
them in good hands. Regards and best
wishes to all.
MILO HENNE.
A BIG CONTRAST
G. T. Pickett, Stables, La.,
Dear Comrade:—Ever since I look
ed over the colony, I have become more
and more convinced that it is a good
thing; and I see the essence of capital
ism more plainly than ever before.
What a contrast it is! On my way
home, when I reached Lake Charles,
the first thing I noticed was a police
man at the station with a gun and a
club. When I reached Jennings, there
was another at the depot loaded down
with artillery of several kinds, and the
Sheriff had a blood-hound trailing a
thief who had broken into a store the
nisht before.
But when I got to Stables, a comrade
met me at the train with a kind word,
showed me around, made me acquain
ted, got me a good room in the hotel,
and I felt at home, just as if I had
come to see some of my relatives. And
the more I think about it, the more I
want to go back.
When I reached home my friends
wanted to know what I thot of it. I
told them it was all that was claimed,
and far more. Some said there must
be a graft somewhere. No man would
quit a job of $400.00 a month and take
up with that job. I replied: "They
want to show the world that co-opera
tion can be practiced successfully, and
they ARE MAKING GOOD."
I think you people are doing a grand
work. I never heard an oath nor a
smutty word; never saw a man whip
a dumb brute; everything was kind
ness to man and beast. No policeman;
no justice of the peace; no lock-up;
no preacher—you are not talking re
ligion, but practicing it.
I see a great 'future for the Llano
Colony. I can see in my mind's eye
brick buildings for homes; I can see a
stately school house; I can see a hap
py, prosperous people—all on the same
equal footing. After looking over the
Colony, I stood on the hill, which is a
beautiful place for a town, and, look
ed eastward. Over the office door I
read "Llano Colony," and it came to
me it ought to be called "Rescue"; for
it rescues people from capitalism.
People .ask me lots of questions that
I can't answer. I am not supposed to
know; I know only that which I can
see. But things will work out as you
get to them. But I believe, by the
heart you people are putting into the
work, that it will certainly turn out all
right. And you people have so good a
time, the very way to keep members at
home; for they can have their fun
there, and will not have to go away to
find enjoyment elsewhere. I think the
amusements and social life will be the
backbone of the Colony in time.
Yours truly,
O. V. Peebler.
P. S.: I forgot to say that our w|gon
maker wants to know if you can fur
nish wagon timber of any kind or all
kinds and at what price. Wagon tim
ber is very scarce in these parts. Please
send me a price list, if you have it
GERMAN AND FRENCH
WORKERS MEET FRATERNALLY
(3y The Federated Pres*)
Berlin. — German and French la
bor have common aims and are not in
terested in reparations and the war pol
icies of their present governments ex
cept to oppose them. This was the
sentiment of the speeches and resolu
tions adopted at a joint mass meeting
here of the French, German and oth
er European Communist parties. Ten
thousand German workers attended.
Marcel Cachin, editor ofL'Humanite,
and Clara Zetkin were the principal
speakers. Representatives from Eng
land. America, Russia, Czecho-Slovak
ia, Poland, the Balkan countries, Swe
den, Switzerland and Denmark also
spoke.