em
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way as egg-plant
Mock resembles the latter—except
that by many colonists it is
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Pull instructions for planting and
«■skurs with sach packet of seeds.
* The colonist who introduced Aus
„■aüan Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLÜ LA.
Erie Labor Press
i. 17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50.
Trial Subscription—10 weeks, 25c.
The Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQU1T1ST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash,
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
jWf (Do You Want Her?)
"A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts the new girl, as exem
i Llano Colony, with the fussy,
artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nent of the rebuilding of Llano
another page. Here is the oppor
you have been looking for. Turn
it now.
an
m
By Robert K. Williams,
Milukoff, fotmer minister under Ka
rensky, escapes bullet of assassin, bul
his frieftd Editor Naboukoff is killed
while trying to shield him. Old offi
cers of the czar are said to be respon
sible. Grievous as it is, it is a relief
to know that* it wasn't an emissary
of Lenin.
# * ¥ *
Shooting anyone never settled any
thing permanently. All the deaths of
the past have but iittSe effert on the
trend of affairs. Sparticus was stab
bed to death by a spy on the battle
field, and the contrary happened. His
cause grew stronger. Lincoln grow in
strength after the assassin's bullet laid
him low. Garfield was removed by
Guitau and the nation hardlynoticed
it. McKinley was shot and a stronger
man took his place.
* * * *
A railroad man said that the nation
would go to pieces when E. H. Harri
man died. For five minutes the rail
roads over which he had control stop
ped in honor of his memory. They
have been going constantly ever since.
* * * *
The death of a man has little effect
on any going institution, and much less
upon the affairs of government,
a man has done good, and he dies, his
influence becomes enlarged as time
goes on; if he has been a nonentity,
he will sink into oblivion, just as the
other billions of humans.
* * * *
Papers now say that Lenin has got
cancer, but that famine conditions in
Moscow demand his attention and he
cannot attend the conference at Gen
It is odd to notice the slant put
V
upon this by the headlittfer, "Lenin
Fears to Go," intimating that he is
shirking danger. Do they really want
to see this genius slaughtered?
* ¥ * *
A hectic flush is that redness char
acteristic of lung trouble. It comes us
ually in the afternoon, and is wrong
fully called hectic, meaning habitual.
Those trained in facial diagnosis even
now become confused if watching
crowds of women on Fifth Avenue fil
ing along. No, doctors, the women are
not a race of tubercularst but wear the
hectic flush at so much per heck pro
cured at a nearby drug store.
* * tfe *
It is amazing, it is funny, and it is
pathetic to see some,who are bedecked
with paint and powder. Literally one
can see thousands looking as if they
just came from behind the scenes. It
is a grand thing to be able to wear
the decoration without an internal
blush.
Amundsen, the Arctic explorer, is go
ing to take with him in his five-year
cruise in the Polar region a powerful
radio telephoning and telegraph outfit.
He also will take along two stout air
planes to make short investigatory
trips. Should his trip be long enough
delayed he will be able to add the new
est of airplane devices, the helicopter,
which permits the plane to rise and de
scend vertically.
If he should wait long enough the
long trip could be entirely avoided with
its attendant hardships. The airplane
will soon be able to make a complete
circle of the polar regions and return
from starting point within a week. A
photograph could be also ihade of the
entire journey.
Jules Vernes did not visualize the
present airplane, but he did see some
thing that looked like a helicopter,
which he claimed could be shot thru
the air with the speed of a rifle bullet.
Most of VerneS' predictions have al
ready come true. The new safety de
vices on the ships now in use make the
longest trips quite possible,
The transcending news of the day is
the wireless development. The papers
are full of it; programs are printed
daily, and for the week of broadcasting
stations; inquiry columns have been
thrown open; columns relating to dis
coveries in wireless are regarded as
especially important; magazines, staid
and conventional are printing stories
of radio; new magazines are being put
on the market and great circulations
are being built up,
The Archdeacon of the Yukon wants
a sending and receiving station instal
led in Alaska. He says that the talk
ing phone would make the long Alas
kan night a time of instruction and
pleasure.
Poor Landru, who is said to have
killed eleven people in Paris, lost his
name when he lost his head. He is
burried under the name of Henri De
sire. His children changed their name
to Remy. Petty vengence is responsi
ble. He desired publicity during his
life time, and the authorities seek to
make him unknown by leaving off his
name on the tombstone, and instantly
the story becomes internationally fam
ous. Landru, finally was given the re
cognition he always craved, uninten
tionally, albeit.
* f * *
High rents in Chicago have vacated
5,000 flats, the) tenants leaving for
the woods at the first breath of spring
Some such exodus is needed in New
York. Apartments that rented former
ly at $35 are now renting at $90;
those at $50 and $60 now being $156
and $175. Wages have not advanced
in commensurate measure. It is re
markable how people can continue to
pay such rents, but they do.
* * * *
It is figured that $2,636 is neces
sary for each worker to earn each year
to keep the average family. If the
foregoing figures are necessary how it
it possible for the thousands to live
who are certainly not making half this
sum?
* * * *
The Bohemian twins, joined together
from the first lumbar to base of sac
rum, Rosa and Josefa Blazek, are dead.
The expected operation to preserve the
life of one was not performed owing
to the brothers' objections. Whether
it would have been successful is more
than problematical. While each had
individual organs, there was but one
They left $100,000. The law, by
lawyers, is not satisfied that they are
two separate entities, and a great deal
of research, precedents, etc., will have
to be looked up before determining
how much the 12-year-old son will re
ceive out of the estate. Even the mo
therhood of the boy is being brought
into doubt—the abstruse question as
to which one was the mother, or if
either was-capable of being a mother
is to be settled legally. Precedents
must be looked up, tho this is the first
in recorded history, whether a living
issue came from such a twin.
* * * *
Business is not yet settled. Some of
the bigger New York hotels are adver
tising for patronage, and the rates
have reached almost a pre-war basis.
When retailers of goods and services
know that wages have been reduced
and more men out of work than sever
al months ago, prosperity of a tempor
ary nature will return.
UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE
BROTHERHOOD ORGANIZES
COUNCIL IN LOS ANGELES
Wednesday night, March 29, Los
Angeles Council of the U. C. B. was
organized with a membership of thirty,
and with good prospects of increasing
this number to a hundred during the
month of April, and eventually into
several hundreds.
Great interest has been shown in the
southern metropolis, and there is eve
ry reason to believe that the new coun
cil will be exceptionally strong. It is
fortunate in being started by a group
who understand very thoroughly the
principles of co-operation, and who
want to build up the educational and
entertainment features.
A corps of organizers is being train
ed to go into the field and establish
other councils as well as to increase
the membership of the first council in
the southern part of the state.
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA WANTS
LOCAL COUNCIL OF U. C. B.
Howard Whaite and others in San
Jose have taken the initiative in form
ing a local council, and Organizer Al
anson Sessions is assisting in getting
enough members to form a local coun
cil in the prune capital.
Those taking the lead in San Jose
are seasoned workers for the co-oper
ative commonwealth, and understand
the plans and purposes of the U. C.
B. thoroughly. The necessity of edu
eating before anything else can be
done, is realized, and it is apparent
that the San Jose council will be high
ly constructive.
I Announcements
Sunday.
Choir Practice, 9:30 a.m.
Esperanto, 11:00 a.m.
Mental Science Study, 6:30 p.m.
Program at Theater, 8.00 p.m.
Monday —
Children's Mental Science Class
at 6:30 p. m.
Orchestra practice, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday. —
Card Party, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday. —
Music Classes: Wind instruments
6:30; Strings, 7:00; Vocal,
8: p.m.
Thursday. —■
Esperanto, 6:30 p.m.
Psychological Meeting, 7:30 p.m.
Friday. —.
Night School, 6:30.
Agricultural Class, 7:45.
Saturday. —
Dancing class, 7:30 p.m.
Dancing, 8:30 to 10:30.
What Is a
Co-operative
Farm?
The Llano Co-operative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY?
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type of co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co-operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attractive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery, tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as broom corn, peanuts, or other produce
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education of his children, the co-operative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
»he child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is that some co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get pnto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In this section, a very small acreage is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries ana iarms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—JF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want to live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try . to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-opêrative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colony.
$15.00 an Acre
It is said that a man and his family can live on five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel —- board and
room.
Llano Cooperative Colony
eesville - - - Louisiana