A NEW TRIAL FOR TOM MOONEY
TOM MOONEY
By Richard Roman
San Francisco, — An important and
far-reaching precedent has just been
established by the California District
Court of Appeals, which is likely to
obtain the freedom of Tim Mooney and
Warren K. Billings., militant Ilabor lead
ers who were condemned to life im
prisonment upon perjured testimony.
Almost coincident with the filing of
Tom Mooney 's appeal, before the same
court, seeking to upset the decision by
a lower court denying a writ of aud
ita querela, came the Court of Appeals
decision ordering a re-trial in the case
of Thomas Brady, convicted of assault
in the notorious Howard Street case.
Brady had been convicted on perjured
testimony which District Attorney Mat
thew I. Brady had sought to conceal.
To-day Brady is free on very nominal
bail, pending a re-trial which is cer
tain to clear him of the crime charged.
The only difference between the sta
tus of the Mooney-Billings defense and
that of. the Howard Street defendent,
from a purely legal point t>f view, is
that perjury in the Mooney case was
not discovered and established until
after the statutory period for applying
for a new trial had expired. In the
case of Brady, it was discovered during
the progress, or shortly after the trial.
But, as Byron C. Parker, attorney
for Mooney, convincingly points out,
perjury is perjury and the victim, no
matter how much time had elapsed, is
entitled to a remedy. In the Howard
Street case, the remedy was obtained
under the law; in the Mooney frame
up, the relief is sought in equity.
It will be extremely difficule for the
District Court of Appeals to deny the
petition for Mooney in the face of its
decision in the Brady case. The jur
ists, Langdon, Sturtevant and Ncurse,
were quite violent in their condemna
tion of the lower court for ruling out
tion of the lower court for ruling out
during the process of the trial evidence
to show perjury by a prosecution wit
ness. ' In upsetting the conviction, the
Court of Appeals invoked with an un
usually religious ferver the "rights of
man" and so on.
I have never understood how Esau
could sell his birthright for a mess of
pottage; but there are moments when
the least sensible of men would not
think it ridiculous to pay too much for
a good slice of roast beef.— Xavier
Marmier.
We must find a way to prevent us
urers from acquiring claims of mcney
indebtedness against the people thru
cunning jugglery of phrases and false
hoods.
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GÖOD ONE
Made and^SoId by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in: —
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his.recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or low. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
DRAINAGE IS ESSENTIAL
TO SUCCESSFUL FARMING
Comrade W. C. Benton led the dis
cussion at the agricultural meeting last
Friday night, and pointed to the two
drains placed in the garden as a vis
ible demonstration of the good effects
that drainage has in improving the soil
for gardening and farming purposes.
Even the best of farmers do not real
ize fully the benefits that can be se
cured through a thorough drainage of
the soil.
If all the rain falling on the surface
of the land were absorbed in the soil,
the earth would be turned into a con
tinuous swamp, and only the lowest
forms of plant life could exist in it.
Water however seeks the lowest level
under the pull of gravity, and with a
natural system of drainage, such as
the porosity of the soil, open water
ways', creeks, brooks or rolling uplands,
only the capillary and hygroscopic wa
ter is retained. But where the parti
cles of the soil are too fine and retard
the gravitational tendency of water,
artificial drains become indispensible to
the best tillage, utilization and produc
tivity of the soil. The soil in the im
mediate vicinity of the town Newllano
consists of very fine sand, silk and clay
and is in need of drainage in order to
produce bumper crops. Other lands
among our holdings at some distance
from the town produce abundantly with
ordinary farm care, when cleared of
stumps.
Most people know that plants will
not grow without water, but mighty
few have any conception of the fact
that the plants require air for their
growth as well as water. And the air
is appropriated by the rootlets of the
plant. Plants can have the life smoth
ered out of them as easily as out of hu
man beings or animals. Take the air
away from plants and they die.
About fifty percent of the ordinary
soil is made up of the spaces between
J the soil grains and this space is filled
with air and water. The size of the
soil grains determining the space so oc
cupied by air, and water drainage in
creases the amount of moisture avail
' able to the plants, shrubs and trees,
enlarges the root zone and promotes
the aeration of the soil, essential to the
growth of the bacteria of nitrification,
and thus increases the available food
supply cf the soil ; the mineral elements
of the soil becoming more soluble thru
oxidation. Drainage, by quickly re
moving surplus water before it can dis
solve and absorb any considerable
amount of plant food, enables the cap
illary moisture, the proper soil solution,
to dissolve and retain a much larger
percent of the essential plant ingredi
ents.
If It Is a
Is there any crime worse than the
bitter, narrow prejudice of the hide
bound self-styled idealist?
That is, the idealist who is so narrow
so little-minded, so small-souled, that
he must destroy all that is not exactly
to his liking.
Emma Goldman, helping the capi
talists to destroy Soviet Russia is the
latest and possibly the most spectacu
lar example.
Lesser personages are none the less
active, but their fields are smaller.
The co-operative store movement has
been destroyed by such a person.
Millions of dollars have been lost.
Hopes have been badly wrenched. The
enemy has been strengthened. Our
cause has been weakened.
Much of this disaster is directly
traceable to the pernicious activities of
one man. Not all, but a great deal.
This man pose? as the god-father of
co-operation in America. His position
is that of philanthropist, kindly direct
or, helper of struggliing groups, ben
evolent advisor.
His activities are partly educational.
His participation in the movement is
that of a hidden mine in the harbor.
Possessing great wealth, it is possi
ble for this individual to use his influ
ence and his purse to destroy, to cre
ate dissension, to sow the seed of dis
cord.
He has been remarkably diligent.
His efforts are known by but a hand
ful. His pose of blessed benevolence
is still maintained. His true character
is as yet undiscovered.
He is able to place the blame of fail
ure upon others, those who have work
ed hard, those who have built, those
who had to take the place of respon
sibility.
It is always easy to stand on the
side lines, and after the play is made
to tell what should have been done.
Just as easy, too, to throw a few
tacks, cockle-burrs, and strands of
barb wire about, undetected.
What do you think, tho, of the man
who does it?
The gentleman who has done more
to destroy the co-operative movement
of America, is unquestionably, in his
own mind, perfectly honest.
It is possible for a narrow, bigoted,
ambitious mind, to find justification
for acts of any nature.
This jealous gentleman probably
thinks that in wrecking the co-opera
tive movement in America he has ad
vanced the cause.
& & &
We are a world of 14-year-old-mind
ed people.
At least we of the United States are.
Seventy people out of a hundred
have the intelligence of 14-year-old
children.
Exhaustive and careful tests show it.
Only 30 out of a hundred grade any
higher.
If you have an idea to give to the
world, just keep this in mind. Ponder
for a moment on the problem of reach
ing such people.
Put out big sign boards and write
your notices in simple words, some
thing catchy.
Give your message in pictures.
Write the headlines of the newspa
pers.
These things catch the people of 14
year-old minds. Such minds do not
absorb heavy books, nor read careful
ly and discriminatingly what the news
papers tell.
They are credulous. They accept
any positive statement. So make your
message in positive assertions. It does
not make much difference whether
they are reasonable statements or not.
But make them positive.
If you write for the masses, use
short, easy words and short easy sen
tences.
• When you talk, do the same.
* ¥ * Ç
* ¥ *
Billboards are coming into greater
and greater use as advertising medi
ums.
Reople traveling in autos read as
they speed. Hence, billboard advertis
ing must be snappy and forceful.
Also, autos take people out of doors.
They read outdoor advertising as nev
er before.
The Rotary Clubs, made up of the
keenest business brains, are using this
method of carrying on a rather ob
scure propaganda.
Throughout the entire country read
ers are admonished to do many things,
Here are a few of them:
BUY, BUILD, WORK, AND CRE
ATE A JOB FOR EVERY MAN,
PROSPERITY FOR ALL.
Another one, calculated to arouse
the admiration and enthusiastic ap
plause of six millions out of work
reads:
THIS IS OUR COUNTRY, YOURS
AND MINE. WE FOUGHT FOR IT.
NOW LET US WORK FOR IT!
There is good logic in the following,
bat just what class it is directed toward
is not quite plain. Anyway, here it is:
YOU CAN HAVE PROSPERITY IF
YOU ARE WILLING TO PAY FOR
Current Comment
IT WITH FAITH, WORK, AND CO
OPERATION.
One of the most inspiring, and one
that might be justly used, with some
slight modification, by the submerged
majority, reads to all who look, as fol
lows;
WHEN MILLIONS OF MEN BUCK
UP, THINK UP, TALK UP, BUSI
NESS WILL WAKE UP.
How we wish we could believe this
inspiring one. But we fear there is
a joker in it. It
WORK HARD, BUY WHAT YOU
NEED, PROSPERITY IS JUST
AROUND THE CORNER.
There are ethers. These are a few
assorted samples. Now, just to see
how effective this propaganda is, why
not ask a few in your neighborhood
what they think of them? If these
bill boards are near where you live,
ask a few people of average 14-year
old minds what they think of them.
♦ 9 * *
We dream in terms of to-morrow,
live in terms of to-day, and think in
terms of yesterday.
Any of us will concede that wire
less telephones for general use will be
everywhere in a few years. To-day
To-day we have them in many homes,
bringing to us concerts, speeches, etc.
Little more than phonographs, but with
vast possibilities. We will concede al
most anything as a possibility of the
future.
Those are our hopes and dreams.
We live to-day in post-war condi
tions. We have failing finances, fail
ing government, failing nations, starva
tion, menacing wars, graft.
Apathy is everywhere. We refuse
to look into the present, prefering vis
sicnary glimpses into the future or re
gretful reminiscent glances at the past.
To-day in 1922, we are thinking in
prewar terms.
We long for the good old days of
low prices, forgetting that with low
prices went unemployment.
In looking backward we are trying
to live backward.
To progress rapidly, we must forget
thi past, examine the present, and view
with calm discrimination the promis
ed events of the future.
*£
One idea in a generation is more
than we should logically expect.
That is, if this generation manages
to get one whole new idea, it is doing
much better than the average. One
whole idea each generation would do
much to remove humanity from star
vation and ignorance.
The lesson this generation must
learn is co-operation as an idea, as a
method of unselfishly helping human
ity
But it will not get that idea. The
war just past, and the war now brew
ing will so obscure this beautiful pur
pose that it will require several gener
ations to get the lessons.
Wars are not fought in battles, nor
are they paid for in money, lives, and
material alone. The price is retarded
progress, the highest price possible.
* * * *
The cause of applied co-operation
has two chief enemies.
The first of these is capitalism. That
is to be expected.
The second is those who believe in
the principles of applied co-operation.
There is not one co-operative but
what has had its progress retarded, if
it has not been ruined, by the con
duct of these misguided persons.
With the American Dollar as their
highest ideal, but with co-operation us
ed as a hopeful jimmy to get it, these
persons in their haste to acquire mon
ey blind themselves to all other consid
erations.
Next to them, come the fanatics, an
imated by fantastic notions of manage
ment, bent on participation in «very
small detail. Usually lacking training.
their efforts result in chaos, misumjer
Spoiled children, they must break up
the game they are not permitted to
make the rules for.
Spies are comparatively few. Cap
italists have not been especially active,
but the fanatic, the dollar-chaser, and
the suspicious—how they have stopped
co-operation!
standing, hatred, animosities, that
smother and cause disruption.
Gaining their ends, such persons
wreck the enterprise because of their
lack of training, and because of un
sound business methods.
Failing to gain their ends, they pur
sue a policy of "rule or ruin." Like
Such bigoted persons can do more
harm in a week than can be patched
up by the conscientious, hard-work
ing constructive members in several
weeks.
They always ensider their rights
first, the rights of the majority never.
They are the true enemies of co-op
eration. They fight from the inside.
Their wounds make lasting scars.
Any cooperative is justified in ex
pelling such members at any cost, for
to retain them is to sacrifice the en
tire enterprise.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacluring end.
But co-operatiur .'or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of all, are owned equally and controlled^collectively. -
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
lire dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony il that it
•hall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the. healthful Highland* of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the couaty eeat of Parish. It !» about 15 siks
*rom the Sabine River, 100 miles from Shreveport, and nearly 300
«■to hen New Orleans. The Kansas Gty Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably wi:h those
in any section of the United States. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make ils community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the»- spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life as does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind, many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, «ugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and other crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evaporator house
and cured.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pur« sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Better than Wime gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modem brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed: The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the benefit of the
community, are the following;
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant; bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
ing department ; hospital ; hotel ; swimming pool ; theater : and at
various other seasons other work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
fish desires in favor of collective need.
N q 4 «Si "r-s-opwcSwiT rtti TS«y uet«-*« ta ee-tsperatieii.
out it takes careful study and persistent training to eliminate the
competitive spirit which has been drilled into them from youth.
Thus, the Colony divides co-operators into two general classes: One
class may join the Colony and co-operate with their fellows com
pletely: The other class desires to live near a co-operative commun
® jy* ye* own their own land, tools, etc., desiring private ownership in
these things. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre.
The Colony is now in a position to interest both. Those who wish
to come into the Colony may do so on the terms of membership given
m another place on this page. Those who wish to own land may
buy a Co-operative Farm, participating to an extent i n the co-operative
advantages of the Colony. They may market their crops with the
Colony, enjoy the social advantages, and many of the educational
advantages, with the privilege of exchanging land to be applied On ■
membership if desired and if acceptable as members The Co-oper
ative Colony will retain about 5,000 acres for itself. The idea is to
build up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
The colony employs agents, but does n ot authorize them to close
any transactions. Memberships should be taken out thröugh the
Membership department. Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville, La.
The colony wants members. It wants people to become interest«» 1
in this enterprise. No one makes any private profit. It is the opportun
ity which co-operators have dreamed of. It is now an established
fact. Will you do your part to extend the field ol its influence?
Those intending to visit the colony should get off the train at Stables.
AH trains stop here. You may not be able to purchase a tickfc
to this place; you may have to buy to Leesville, but you can get
a ticket from Leesville here for ten cents without getting off the
train. We meet all trains; the colony town is right on the railroad.
Notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so.
If you are interested, send for more information and ask such ques
tions as you wish. Send stamps for reply. We want you to know
about us and we want von to ask Questions about everything not
made clear to you. t-nerature sent free on request.
Llano Co-operative Colony
LEESVILLE, LA.
—Advertisement.