THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page 1 )
important to the who!« world. Capi
talism is breaking down; something
must take its place. We feel sure that
the human race is not going backward.
We believe the workers are going to
step forward and establish the Co-op
erative Commonwealth. We believe
this so thoroughly that nothing can
change or swerve us from our purpose.
Quite frequently people come here be
lieving they are co-operators; they
join us. But either their suspicion,
their jealousy, or their greed so con
trols them, that it makes them unfit
to live in our big co-operative family,
which of course means that they must
either change their motive or it will
drive them out. You cannot play a
sham game in this place; you soon
show just what you are and a few go;
because they are unfitted for the new
regime that is now being inaugurated
here. Now, these misfit people are not
to blame", and we do not wish to in
any way discredit or harm them; but
if they refuse to recognize that their
limited co-operative knowledge or spir
it is at fault, then we must protect our
selves against any wrongful act or at
tacks by them. Usually they think
everything is wrong but themselves,
and try to rule or ruin. However, if
their motive is honest they realize that
they are at least-partly to blame, leave
the Colony peacefully and later return
and make good co-operators, after
thinking it all over when under com
petition again. Those whose motives
are not honest do everything in their
power to destroy the colony or some of
its inhabitants; they join up with the
most vicious persons and methods in
order to wreak revenge upon us, singly
or collectively. Now why in an age of
reason should anyone believe tales told
by these misguided persons without a
full explanation or investigation. I
know no real comrade will stoop to dip
himself or herself in the swill pail pur
posely, so if tales come to your ears,
think of just one thing, "That the road
to progress is always over the opposi
tion of those who don't understand and
the combined ignorance of the world."
Most of us are enslaved with greed
and suspicion and a few words of in
sinuation often cause great trouble, so
why condemn until know. Is it
why condemn until you know. it
possible a whole community of people,
nearly 300 in numbers, who have giv
en their all in personal property, years
of hard work and study, can all be
■wrong? Is it not possible that a lone
individual who complains is somewhat
wrong? And is it not true that the
worse their accusations, and the great
er the number of the faults they find,
the more likely he is to show up a per
sonal weakness? Are we comrades in
this great work always to be placed
on the rack of condemnation with yonr
doubts against us at all times? Come,
see for yourself and then judge. For
seven years we have gone thru the fire
and we become weary and waste much
energy in defending ourselves against
mistaken people. This energy could
be expended in construction, provided
they had the faith in us to trust our
sincerity of purpose and integrity. This
is said to reach you, my comrade, who
are inclined to listen to tales that may
come from any source. Have you con
fidence in this movement and in us?
If so, these words are not necessary.
The algebra class and the agricultural
meeting were held to-night and were
both welt-attended. The subject of
drainage was open for discussion and
much good resulted.
# * * »
Saturday, April 8. — I. F. Brown is
the donor of a good book to our li
brary and R. E. Beaty sent in a special
kind of rhubarb. I must correct the
credit for a shipment of rhubarb giv
en to Adams and Son last week—they
shipped it at the request of Comrade
Wm. Hauenstein, of Missouri, and he
is the donor. Many thanks for these
gifts; they add to our up-building.
Comrade Darth came home to-day and
is more enthused over the Colony than
ever. He says that, after living here
a few months, one can go away and
have a much better "slant" on the gen
eral situation outside. He is home to
stay. Work yvas started to uncover
the cane stubble and Waters-and Hin
kle finished one patch of it tc-day. The
land crews are still on their job and the
builders are at their work as hard as
ever. Again the children's day is here,
and they were mostly working in the
garden with Babb and Benton. Water
melons were set out in the field that
had been raised in the hot bed. Later
they went to the swimming pool when
I joined them for lunch. Later we all
had a good swim and a general good
time, returning to the garden for more
work. Comrades Loutrell, Landrum,
and C. Shutt made another »trip to
Longville and got more electrical sup
plies. Soon we will be completely fix
ed for an electrical house lighting and
electrical pcwer, sufficient for all pre
sent needs. The dancing school had an
extra large class ahd it is very pleasing
to see six year-old kiddoos joining into
the class with sixty-year-old kids! The
dance was then eft joyed until 10:30
The necessity of our roof garden is
more apparent each week, and in a few
more weeks we will wonder how we
ever got along without it. Comrade
F. E. Mitchell from N. H, came in this
evening to look us over and was on
hands to enjoy the evening and meet
us all at play time.
* * * *
Sunday, April 9. — To-day I will
give you a little sermon that may help
us to get together and understand each
other. This Colony is no play garden.
But one of the problems we have to
solve is that of sociability. The human
animal is a social being and we, with
all our work and supposed sacrifices,
enjoy our cvery-day life immensely.
Our education is intended to be the
very best and to give our students the
ideals of life that tend to develop the
best that is in each and for the common
good of all the rest of the world. We
are holding no secrets and never will;
what is our knowledge is open to all
who may wish to know it. Our every
day work is done with the intention of
benefiting each and every person in our
organization. Therefore ycu can sea
that there is no wish or desire for a
thinker to do anything but to develop
himself to the highest degree of individ
uality. But this individual develop
ment is not for selfish purposes, but to
the common good The interest of each
is taken care of by the whole. It is
necessary then for us to always keep
in touch with the purpose of our efforts
in order to get the best of team work.
1 he land-clearing crew is clearing land
for the purpose of bringing more land
into cultivation with the least labor
expenditure possible from the farmers.
It is the duty of the farmers- to pro
duce-the food for ourselves and live
stock, and they try to keep in touch
with all of us and our food necessities.
The builders are putting up buildings
that we may live in better homes and
work in buildings that offer the best
possible conditions for the workers at
all times. Our aim is to have our so
cial life conducted so that it will fur
nish pleasure for everybody and tend
to draw in closer together and form a
horçje psychology for Colony social life
unequaled anywhere. You can see how
necessary it is for us all to keep as
closely in touch with our purposes and
ideal at all times as we can, in order
to each make his individual effort co
ordinate with the general cause. What
is the general ideal to be worked out?
A society of people who are producing
for use only; in which every person
has an equal right to the necessaries
of life and the opportunity to develop
the individuality of himself to the high
est standard; where the spiritual side
of people will develop away from sel
fishness, jealousy and suspicion, and in
their place develop a wish to serve for
the good of all. Now there is one
point I want you to get. The wish to
meddie with another's work is far from
keeping in touch with each other. We
expect each individual to know what
our general purpose is (therefore the
psychological meetings) ; and when
each does his or her best to work to
the ideal, it leaves no „room for and
personal interference or "even criticism.
Is this easy to do? No, indeed, we are
so apt to take general welfare talks
and subjects as personal; we are apt
to suspect the other fellow« is not do
ing his share of the work, or think
he is taking more from the common
fund than he needs, and in fact call
back into use all our past life has
taught in our struggle against each
other. We, here, have practically ab
olished these destructive thots and are'
ablç to adjust ourselves in our daily
life with each other and be satisfied
with doing our best for the common
good, with full confidence in the rest.
Some day the world will come to this
idea, when they see hpw useless, fool
ish and unjust the competitive system
of life has become and that all men
are their brothers with the same right
to life, liberty and the persuit of hap
pii.ess. Co-operation alone can bring
this and if you want it you must join
into the work to get it. It is curs for
the having, but you must get the de
'sire and then put it into action. The
mental science class and a fine pro
gram at the theater were missed by
yours truly, much to "ye lady report
er's" sorrow.
* * * *
Monday, April 10. — Another fine
day and it is needless to say we hope
many others will fellow until we have
completed our planting. The garden
is looking dandy and the children are
taking a great interest helping Babb
and Benton in preparing the land and
planting. The strawberries are now be
ginning to bear, and H. Buck is acting
chief berry-picker and boss of that job.
Burton has been working night and
day in order to get our income tax
roll made out and believe me, it is a
job! No other corporation is based
or works on the same principle that
ours does and it makes a big job of
bending, twisting, and squirming in or
der to make our report comply with
the law. Well, Burton ki^ows, ask
him. Mrs. Shutt is again back home
and says she is good and glad to be
hoirs. Comrade Coleman is now writ
ing a pamphlet on the process he em
ployes in making fertilizer. He is giv
ing all the details of this process and
it should be in the hands of every far
mer and gardener in the country. We
are going to print the full directions in
bood form and any person can fit him
self up with a small plant and cut
away from commercial fertilizer. A
comrade from Colorado writes that the
only draw-back he can see to the Col
onny scheme is that it keeps out the
poor man and his family that have no
funds, and is open to only those who
have $1,000 op-more., Now, there is
a shade of truth m that statement, but
you muit understand that the Colony
must'be financed by some one. It takes
cash to buy land and machinery, to
say nothing of the cost of living until
we produce enough to supply ourselves.
Now, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
is for just this purpose. If enough peo
ple will pay in sufficient money to fin
ance the proposition, we can then take
in thousands of people who are now
financially broke. Another funny thing
is this: As long as the average man
has a little money, he thinks he can
beat the game' and he continues to
buck it until he finally loses all he had
and then he is ready for the Colony.
Others, who have a little cash will put
their money in, provided we GUARAN
1EE to make them safe in their invest
ment. Now, comradse, let me say
again that as long as you want to
beat the game ' you are not ready for
co-cperation. You should know that if
you win out it is at the expense of
others who are not so fortunate. The
man who only looks at his own safely
should realize that we must all be sav
ed together and that thru our combin
ed efforts alone can we be made se
cure. Now, we have all been robbed
in the past and it makes us wary and
careful; but, comrades, we are here
working— we own the land, buildings,
and an immense amount of wealthh in
tools, machinery and stock—don't be
a doubter. Come and s^e fcr yourself
and then join in with us now and help
tile fellow who is not able to buy a
membership. The quartet practice at
Martin s, the orchestra at the school
house, and the children's mental sci
ence class at the club house kept most
of us busy to-night.
* ¥ * ¥
Tuesday, April 11. — Well, people,
the time is fast approaching when our
land purchase is to be made. Just
think! Only next month. And until
that $24,000 is completely raised I
know some one who will not sleep
many hours in any one night. You who
have money and intend to help us out
on this purchase should relieve the sit
uation as soon as possible, or "ye lady
reporter" is liable to blow up, and then
you would not have the diary to read.
Now, that alone should be worth sever
al thousands of dollars to you in a
year. She sometimes feels as if she
earns a million while writing it. Of
course you do not know the amount of
faith we have in you people, to fee!
sure that enough of you are going to
help RIGHT NOW and permit us to
make this payment on time. We feel
sure that the LLANO I25-CLUB will
be complete before next January; but
the big rush must come now in order
to make this year's payment on time.
111 promise you this: If you people do
the job on time, it will put new vim
into our group and especially the "lady
reporter" to such an extent that the
work here will become a play job—
and the Diary—well, you will think it
is written by a superman. Seriously,
comrades, if you are coming or çan
help us at all, no matter how small
the amount or how large, it will all be
used in making more and better homes
for our class. It is the common cause
you will be assisting, not a small group.
Will you not do it now and permit us
to plan ahead for greater things? Com
rade Mitchell returned to New Hamp
shire a much pleased man, with our
possibilities and we feel that he can be
of great'assistance to our progress. The
card club met to-night and played
Five Hundred and a pleasant evening
was had by those who attended. The
ball team is adding new players and
a game on May Day is assured. Com
rade N. M. Harris, of Illinois, sent in
a sewing machine which sure comes
in handy at the sewing department.
Every little bit helps, comrades, to make
a successful demonstration of volun
tary, complete co-operation.
COTTON AND GRAIN
EXHIBITED AT L. S. U.
A joint exhibit of cotton and grain
recently was made and explained be
fore the students at the Louisiana
State University and members of the
extension force, by G. S. Meloy, inves
tigator in cotton marketing, and K V B.
Seeds, specialist in grain marketing,
United States Department of Agricul
ture. The object of this display was
to show some of the different grades of
cotton grown in the U. S. A their com
parative values, the best methods of
marketing and grading; and to exhib
it the" Federal standards of grain and
the , methöds of grading under those
standards for the purpose of demon
strating how certain changes in produc
tion methods will give a product that
will receive a better grade and hence
command a better price.
In the cotton section were samples
of grades for the American upland
types, the Sea Island types and the
Egyptian types. Pictures showing the
Luncheon in Medinet Hobu Temple
? .
'
>v
i /
? > ■ : r.
. $
Î&
> I
m !
■ hr>
i" \ TV
:x
Here's a nice qul^f spot for luncheon In the Temple of Medinet Hobu, di
rectly across the Nile from K&rnak. The three little girls In the picture are
watercarriers and the reeds they are holding are to fan flies from the travellers
and their donkeys. From the time the tourist sets forth on his ride to the
ruins until he returns, several of the children follow him on their self-appoint
ed tasks.
different steps in the spinning process
that cotton goes through for the pur
pose of discovering the relation be
tween foreign matter content and the
real product, methods of baling cotton
and the plans and specificaions for
warehouses were shown by Mr. Meloy.
Types of various grains, including
rice, showing some factors affecting
grades, a panel of the various stages in
the marketing of grain, the grading of
grajp from the sampling of car in the
railroad yard to the final analysis in the
laboratory and the milling and baking
values of various wheats which influ
ence the grade, and the apparatus us
ed in inspecting the grain were present
ed by Mr. Seeds.
Many students availed themselves of
this opportunity of getting some very
helpful suggestions and information
that will supplement their college work.
The exhibits were shipped from Baton
Rouge to Nashville, Tennessee, where
Llano 125 Club
Is YOUR Club
Don't merely WATCH It Grow — Get In and Help!
Do you intend some day to make Llano your home?
Do you want a comfortable dwelling and the conveniences of a modern city
when you come?
Of course you do.
Then join the LLANO 125-CLUB immediately. This club is YOUR club.
Its purpose is to furnish the cash with which to build a place for YOU. We
will do the pioneering; we will do the actual work; but you must supply the
necessary cash.
125,000 Dollars will completely finance this Colony. It will give us com
plete ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with which to '
build our modern city. It will give steady employment to several thousand per
sons and lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will
peimit us to admit people who are good co-operators and are willing to give
their labor and moral support to our undertaking, but have not the money
with which t<j buy a membership. #
We want 125 persons to pledge themselves to furnish 1,000 Dollars each
THIS YEAR. This will enable us to do in ONE YEAR what is would take sev
eral years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with
your help we can do it much sooner.
On another page you will find a list of those who have already joined
the Club, and this will be published frequently, so that you may note its pro
gress. But don't merely WATCH it grow—get in and-MAKE it grow.
On May 1, 1922, Llano Colony will have been eight years in existence;
and within the last two years we have made more progress than during the
previous six years.
What will we do in the next two years?
THAT IS UP TO YOU!
Let the Colonics Hear from YOU today
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LOUISIANA
they will be displayed for the students
at Peabody college.
Our confidence in the instability of
fortune is so great that excessive pros
perity of our enemies makes us rejoice
as the signal of their impending ruin.
—Pre vost-Pa radol.
We are still living in the feudal age.
because we are misled by effects. We
often fail to see the real cause. —-C. E.
S. Wood.
EAGLE "MIKADO
Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made in five grades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
(Continued from page I )
to help with your small monthly dona
tion. As explained in previous issues,
this club is for the purpose of relieving
the Llano comrades of the necessity of
making and selling products in order
to get a living, so that all J-he |r time
may be used for the BUILDING of the
Co-operative Commonwealth, and that
they may have the necessary money to
furnish material and improvements.
See the announcement of this club on
page three.
The motto of this club is: You give
your cash; we'll give our time; toge
ther we'll build the Co-operative Com
monwealth."
u. S. WEATHER REPORT
The indications are for cooler wea
ther the first of the week; generally
fair except for the possibility of local
rains, for the barometer still indicates
rain. Normal temperature thereafter.
2.40 inches of rainfall has been re
corded during the week ending April
10th, inclusive.
Apr. 4—max. 77, min. 60
Apr. 5—max. 83, min. 54
Apr. 6—max. 84, min. 61
Apr. 7—max. 84, min. 69
Apr. 8—max. 83, min. 70
Apr. 9—max. 80, min. 62
Apr. 10-max. 80, min. 58
Caprices of women are the result of
perversion caused by man.—Taxile
Delord.
The Labor News
The "Labor News" published in AI
toona, Pa., is the largest LABOR PA
PER published in the state, and gives
you the labor news from home.
LABOR NEWS PUB. C.
ALTOONA, PA.