——
"Ji
Llano Colonist
EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEES VILLE, LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
1 as second-class matter. May 14, 1921, at the postoffice at
Leesville, La., under act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS : Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tion« regarding the publications to The Llano Publication*. Leesville, La.
This will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name a» it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER— Editor.
Thit issue of The Llano Colonist
closes the first year of its work in
Llano's Louisiana Colony,
As stated in the first issue, one year
ago, the Llano Colonist was born to
grow. This it has done in both size,
quality and«'circulation.
Published as a four-page paper; it
has doubled its size.
The quality is also quite as good.
The addition of the Federated Press
Service has enabled The Llano Col
onist to become a real progressive
NEWSpaper, giving without capitalistic
coloring or party humbuggery, the un
tarnished news from the world's work
ins» class centers.
The circulation of The Llano Colon
ist has been set for 100,000. Mechan
ical arrangements at the Colony print
shop are being made so that, with some
extra help which is now needed in the
way of skilled printers, the goal of
100,000 circulation can be reached.
This, of course, depends largely up
on our friends. We can only provide
the best weekly paper it is possible to
make. We CAN do it. We believe we
are doing it now, but we can do bet
ter, and we will soon. But the matter
of advertising The Llano Colonist is up
to YOU. Thousands would read about
Llano and be glad to get the news of
Llano if you would introduce them to
The Llano Colonist,
YOU do your share, and we will do
OURS. That's practical co-operation.
Do this every week, and we will have
a splendid story to tell you next May
Day.
In the face of the fact that the bi
tuminous coal operators have publicly
refused to confer with the representa
tives of the organized bituminous min
ers on wages, "Coal Age," their prop
aganda organ, has the unblushing ef
frontery to flood newspaper offices
with printed statements that the opera
tors are willing to confer and that the
wages must come down to reduce the
price of coal. Piratical profiteering
must stop; that's what will have to be
done and deliberate falsifying of facts
will no longer camouflage the shame
less robbery of the public by the coal
operators and coal dealers.
Roger W. Babson, who is credited
with getting $1,600,000 a year for his
EAGLE "MIKADO
Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made in five (rades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Let Us Do Your
Job Printing
Quick Service
Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesville, La. #
advice, from the plutocrats, apparent
ly has been selected by his employers
as their chief propaganda agent to
prepare the people for the next raid
upon their industry. The masters of in
dustry must have'cleaned up on their
deflation haul about all there was to
he had, and according to Babson's
statement have had their thinking caps
on for some time and intend to spread
their spider's web of debt-enslaving
credit anew abroad to catch the unso
phisticated producers and absorb their
new substance as of yore. But what
else can happen as long as people ab
solutely refuse to dig down to the bed
rock of piratical, parasitical financeer
ing, cast the glamour of the gold-stan
dard superstition out of their minds and
gain an understanding of the fact
that the people in general produce their
own so-called capital cotemporaneous
ly while at work and through mutual
exchange. While the different individ
uals and groups are at work at their
speciality, they require the products
and services of "one another and thus
support each other, and this is the ac
tual capital that sustains and maintains
industrial activity. So-called financ
eering is a camouflaged flim-flam bun
co game to pull the wool over the eyes
of the working bees in the industrial
hive while the slick financial drones
abstract the honey. Babson, unwitting
ly lets the cat out of the bag when
he points out the difference between
usury-exacting bonds and stocks. Those
who get interest wax wealthy and ab
sorb gradually all the property of the
country, while those who pay interest
are left to hold the bag. Go to it, Ro
ger. You will probably delude a lot
of people, but some of us fellows can
read between the lines and appreciate
enlightenment thus gained. Thanks!
The plutocratic coal operators are
flooding the country with misleading
propaganda to prejudice the people
against the bituminous coal miners
now on strike, because the law-defy
ing operators refuse to meet them to
arrange a new wage scale on the basis
of collective bargaining. The public
ought to be well üp on the character
of these gentry. The extortionate pric
es that they have had to pay for fuel
right straight along must be charged
chiefly to the extortionate profiteering
Scientific Thinking vs.
Mental Self-Stultification
Mental Science is studied in Llano
Colony with special reference to and in
the interest of co-operative coloniza
tion. Everything that is relevant to the
special objects of the Colony is a pro
per subject for consideration in the
mental science classes here; but any
thing that is irrelevant and is calculat
ed to divert the energies, mental and
physical, from the solution of practi
cal Colony problems is consequently
a definite loss of time and energy that
can more profitably be utilized in
something that will advance the prac
tical realization of the Colony's ideals.
The way of getting to know the pro
cesses of natural phenomena and their
beneficial utilization in the interest of
people is scientific thinking, while the
memorizing of beautiful phrases and
enticing speculations by no stretch of
the imagination can be placed in the
category of scientific thinking. When
this distinction is clearly kept in mind,
the emphasis placed upon giving undi
vided attention to the solution of the
economic problems qf the Colony wiH
be more fully appreciated. Only upon
the foundation of such a scientific,
just, and genuinely humanitarian solu
tion of the economic, the bread and
butter problem, is a truly broad and
comprehensive culture and civilization
possible. A so-called broad culture that
disregards the righteous solution of the
economic problem is a snare and a de
lusion, deliberately designed to entan
gle human flies in its sophistries to pre
vent them from giving the absolutely
necessary attention to the every-day
problems of finding the best possible
ways to living here and now.
It was for the purpose of diverting
the attention of the people from their
real interests and their reciprocal duties
—from the objects and rights of so
cial life, and the true principles of the
administration of public affairs, here
and now—that recourse was had to ail
kinds of chimeras, sophistries, creeds,
and superstitions of countless diver
sity. And anything and everything
whatsoever that diverts attention from
the here and now and from the only
genuine process of getting to know
and learning to understand the prob
lems that confront us and the methods
proclivities of these forestallers of na
ture's bounty that ought not to be
longer tolerated to claim as their own
personal property what from the stand
point of natural right ought to be dealt
with as the common property of the
whole people. The miners advocate
nationalization of the coal mines so
that the common people can get their
fuel in winter at labor cost. The su
perfluous, interloping operators should
be ousted.
The New York Stock Exchange has
sent this paper a list of its members
and firms and requests us to give them
gratuitous publicity so that lambs may
present themselves to be shorn by these
assumed reputable firms. It would
never do to be shorn by curb brokers.
The exchange members having paid
their good money for a membership,
alone are privileged to fleece suckers
I never could get it through my noo
dle why the police will grab newsboys
and other small fry who play craps and
penny ante, while the big gamblers of
the stock exchange go unmolested and
have all the credit privileges that thé
banking laws make possible and pro
ductive industry and agriculture are
left to languish and perish.
If you have been afraid to go out
in the woods and enjoy the wonderful
perfume and aroma of the countless
flowers scattered everywhere, because
of fear of poison ivy, you can now
fearlessly go forth and enjoy that re
creation in forest and glen to your
heart s content. It has been found that
the effects of poison ivy can be neu
tralized and averted any time within
eight hours after the hand or face
have been touched by the plant, by
bathing the infected spot with gasoline.
Ihe gas dissolves the poison deposited
on the skin, and no after-effects are
felt. As soon as the itching makes it
self felt the gasoline should be applied.
Poison ivy grows three leaves to each
cluster, either as a vine or shrub and
may be avoided by watching out for
it. However, when infected, use gas
oline.
Colonist Ed. Merrill is quite a gen
ius; strikingly demonstrated by a most
excellent periodical produced by his
nimble fingers and alert brain, and cir
culated among the colonists. » He has
named it "Fun," and it surely is very
humorous in a most delightful way.
Letters and pictures are all drawn by
hand and evince considerable talent.
He takes aj sly dig at some of his fel
low workers in his drawings, but real
izing his good-natured raillery, it is all
taken in good part. Go to it, Ed.
Permitting others to think, pray, or
vote for you is slavery. ,
of their real, lasting, and final solu
tion, should be avoided for the time
being. Only as the true causes of their
misfortunes are understood by a peo
ple, can the natural remedies be found
and applied.
Baron D'Holbach, in "Good sense,"
realized the difficulties of scientific
thinking when he says:
"Blinded by error from their very in
fancy, restrained by the invisible bonds
of opinion (prejudice and superstition)
overcome by terrors [the terrors of an
ecclesiastical hell and governmental
threats of violence], their facultie;
blunted by ignorance, how should the
people know the true causes of their
wretchedness ?"
"People [have been taught to] im
pute to themselves the disasters that
daily befall them. If nations some
times feel the strokes of convulsed na
ture, their bad governments are but too
often the immediate and permanent
causes, from whence proceed the con
tinual calamities which they are forc
ed to endure.
"Negligent, ambitious and perverse
princes [government officials] are the
real causes of public misfortunes. Use
less, unjust,, reiterated wars depopu
late the earth. Encroaching and des
potic governments [plutocracies] ab
sorb the benefits of nature. The ra
pacity of courts [bankers] discourag
es agriculture, extinguishes industry,
produces want, pestilence, and misery.
Heaven is neither cruel nor propitious
to the prayers of the people; it is their
proud chiefs [exploiters] who have al
most always hearts of iron."
I have quoted Baron D'Holbach to
furnish the students an indication of
part of the problem. No one would
expect to find a correct solution of a
mathematicatl problem unless every
item of that problem was included and
the proper method employed. In a
similar way scientific thinking requires
that every item of the problem be. in
cluded and its influence in the subject
matter definitely ascertained and giv
en its just estimate and credit. Accur
ate thinking is an ability that is very
slowly acquired. Knowledge can be
gained only by patient, painstaking in
vestigation, experimentation, and de
monstration.
Psychological anodynes and encour
aging suggestions can exhilerate the
feelings and assuage pain, but they
cannot and do not impart dependable
knowledge for the removal of wrong
methods in the production "land distrib
ution of the necessaries and comforts
of life, nor for th.e right way of indi
vidual living.
Wrangling with politicians or with
ecclesiastics does not put right methods
of social industry into practice. If we
believe in equitable co-operation, we
must put our ideal into practice, and
not just hear people take about it or
"chin" about it ourselves. Only by
practicing the right can the wrong be
overcome and be eliminated.
The universe is ruled by immutable
law;
Every effect has its corresponding
cause ;
Like causes invariably produce
like effects;
Hence nothing happens by chance."
To use our minds in such a way as
to get a knowledge of these laws and
how to conduct ourselves in conform
ity with these laws, is scientific think
ing. These laws are self-enforcive,
and all the ills of human life are due
to disregard of these laws. Pain and
suffering are a notification from nature
that its order has been outraged, and
pain, want, inharmony, and disaster are
the penalties inflicted. We
r t , , ... , ,
hy theo
ries. These conditions must be studied,
understood and dealf with intelligently.
I have been a resident of the United
States for half a century now, and for
over forty years have been an interest
ed student in the subject of a solution
of the economic and social problem,
and have repeatedly taken part in at
tempts of putting right principles into
practice; but until I came to Newllano
I never before found a group of people
firmly determined and successfully en
gaged in this task of overwhelming im
portance.
This mental science class in this par
ticular lesson is studying inductive rea
soning. Our reason is given us for
ascertaining the laws by which results
come to pass. The method of careful,
systematic and thorough induction of
generalization is the method of mod
ern science, and connected as it is with
searching investigation, experimenta
tion, and demonstration it has secured
to mankind all the wonderful achieve
ments in modern productive industry.
By applying the same method to human
relations and personal affairs a scien
tific solution will be found for them
and in no other way.
False theories are needed and used
to justify wrong conduct. Let that
sink into your minds, knd you will no
longer be led captive l/y the sophistries
of plutocracy.
BY THE WAY
If you are in bad, to stay in only
m,akes it worse.
* ¥ •¥ *
He that is wild thinks that the whole
world is wild.
* * * *
What we think are necessaries are
often vile things.
* * * *
Be patient, for there are many
guys" you can lick.
^Prohibition has accomplished one
great good—shorter banquet speeches.
*_* * * ■
Women who pay income tax in New
York number nearly one hundred and
fifty thousand.
#
The reason why last summer's bath
ing suit will not do is because it out of
date—either too long or too short.
* * * *
A new Italian airship will have an
electrically operated kitchen capable
of providing meals for 100 passengers.
* * * *
The Russian ' Soviet Government is
planning to fill German warehouses
with goods to barter in lieu of trading
on a gold basis.
As a rapid-fire piemaker, Miss Laura
House, of Maucotah, Kans., is believed
to hold a record'—twenty pies in 45
minutes are her figures. „
*****
The Brotherhood of Locomotive
Firemen and Engineers organized by
eleven firemen in 1873 now has a mem
bership of nearly 120,000.
* * * *
An Ohio man has succeeded in breed
ing a tailless dog. But really he began
at the wrong end. A barkfess dog is
the crying need of the age.
* * * *
The world's larges shallow oil
field is in Bossier Parish, La. Wells
produce from five to five thousand
barrels at four hundred feet and less.
* * * *
Forty-eight dead, hundreds injured,
and many millions of property, was the
toll taken by a storm which swept
through Indiana, Illinois and Missouri
last Tuesday.
* * * *
There can be no place where people
Kve close enough so that they may as
semble in large or small gatherings to
sing the songs they like best, but that
they are bettered by the effort.
If the Mosaic commands, better
known as the ten commandments, were
not interred to govern the actions of
people, why were they brought down
to us as a part of the Christian law?
5£ if, if.
At Amarillo, Texas, Lonnie Quine,
15-year-oI<4 son of Mrs: Quine, a wid
ow, was accidentally electrocuted when
he caught hold of a guy wire which
supported a street railway trolley pole.
* * * *
The Mayor of Houston, Texas, is a
baseball fan with a punch! He has is
sued a proclamation calling on the bus
iness houses to close so that everybody
can have the opportunity to witness
the opening game of the season be
tween the home team and Galveston.
* * * *
Gradually woman demands her
rights and gets them. She demands
in America exactly the same status as
man and will get it. This does not
mean, as idiots assert, that she ought
to be a fireman or a policeman. You
might as well say that, because man is
woman's equal, he ought to take his
turn as wet nurse.—Arthur Brisbane.
* * * *
At Magnolia, Ark., the six-year-old
son of Mr. and Mrs. B. M. Cooper was
instantly killed when he grasped an
1 electric wire, while playing at the plant
J of the Consumers' Ic e and Light com
pany, where his father is an engineer.
The wire was broken during a wind
storm which blew down the ice fac
tory's smokestack and was left dang
ling, it was stated, when workmen re
built the stack.
* * * *
The fight against typhoid fever in
the U. S. is showing good results by
decreasing mortality rate from 13.3 per
100,000 in 1916 to 7. in 1920. In
'We must have äs big a navy as
England" was the cry in Russia away
back in 1850. Later Germany said
the same thing. And now we are to
be tarred by the same stick. Why
should we be alarmed i£ England de
cides to spend millions on her navy?
We can safely look on her folly and
smile ; because what we did in war pre
parations during the recent scuffle was
the surprise of all the world, and we
can do the same old trick again and do
it quicker and better than ever, next
time. But there seem! to be so many
people that want us to get into the
game of building a big navy, and of
spending our good money in foolish
competition along that line. Better wait
for a cause first. And, besides, we
need the money.
This system of competition in big ar
mies and a big navy was the direct
me» cum a Dig navy was the direct
of d,« downfall of „„y „„i„„
$12,000 TO SINGLE TAXERS
Mobile, Ala., April 18. ~ Herfrjr
Ford. Detroit manufacturer, and Mrs,
Ford have donated the Fairhope Or
ganic school, located at Fairhope, the
single tax colony on Mobile Bay, the
sum of $12,000.
This announcement was made by
Mrs G. C. Johnson, founder of the:
school, who is touring the country lec
turing on the Fairhope school work.
SEEK FREEDOM FOR
BILLINGS AND MOONEY
San Francisco, April 18. — District
Attorney Matthew Brady, of San Fran
cisco to-day appealed to Governor Wm.
D. Stephens of California to free War
ren K. Billings and Thomas Mooney
from the state penitentiary.
Both are serving sentences for com
plicity in the San Francisco prepared—
ness parade dynamiting of 1916.
Brady wrote the governor he believ
ed both should be freed immediately
DETROIT VOTES TO BUY
CITY STREET CAR LINES
Detroit, April 18. — The city yes-'
terday voted 55,658 to 12,198 to pur
chase the city lines of the Detroit Un
ited Railways for $19,850,000, the fig
ure agreed upon between Mayor Cou—
zens and stockholders of the corpora—
Louisiana it was 15.5 while the high
est (22.4) appears for South Carolina^
The mortality rate from this cause is
a very important sanitary index as to
the healthfulness of a community. As
this is a filth disease, dead carrion be
ing one of its fruitful sources, care:
should be taken that all decaying mat
ter be cremated. Flies should be care
fully screened from all food as they
carry the infection.
* ¥ * *
The oldest horse in the world is nam
ed Clover. Thirty six years ago, at tir
age of 15, he retired from the trotting,
track and became the property of the
Reverend Doctor N. Meyers of Cataw
issa, Pa. Dr. Meyers, too old to
preach, can no longer afford to keep
the horse, which is 51 years old, much
younger than the Reverend Doctor. It
may be necessary to shoot the horse.
Everybody will feel very sad about
that. What about the Reverend Doctor
Meyers, retired on a pension of a little
more than $1 a day, after preaching:
all his life?—Arthur Brisbane in the
Shreveport Times,
Was man made for religion, or was
religion made for man?
Classified Section
FOR EXCHANGE—926 shares of
Llano stock to exchange for property
—J. C. Nale, Box 32, Wasco, Calif.
YOUR GUIDING STAR.—If you
wish to make the most of each passing;
day, buy a copy of "Planetary Daily
Guide"—price $ 1.00 postpaid.— Emily
M. Richardson, 803 Santa Paula St.,.
Santa Paula, Calif. 52t6p>
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles to town; 1 mile to
school. About 40 acres wood3(f
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grassy
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00)..
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance its
cash. Will take Llano stock up to>
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S.
care Llano Colonist 147
WILL TRADE FOR COLONY
STOCK—40 acres of bottom land,,
mostly under cultivation, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.—H. A
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
' acres cleared and under cultivation,
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
T hÂM* I' 100: Main road '
A E WELDON, Rte 1, Box 63, Lees
ville, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber on bal
h ° use: te nant houses.
$10,500 for all.-See G. T. Pickett,
L ,ano Colony.
FOR SALE 102 acres; 32 acres
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 barns.
Price, $5,000. Close to Colony hotel.
See George T. Pickett.
39
intr^ 3 q ALE ~. 200 , a . cres near Picker
ing, 3U acres m cultivation; good tim
h*r ™ Y . —gooa tim
Pf ,°. n * he balance; hummock and
two° brîck ' ffrenl r °° m l° US ® Wllh
$ 4500.-JS es Piïï Iw, oS£.J2