Meanderings
By Robert K. WsBianu, D. C., Ph. C.
Bryan is becoming an anachronism,
out of date. A paleolithic mind fails to
attract these days. When he stepped in
to a room filled with people eager to
hear testimony in a rum-selling case,
he was hissed by club members as he
attempted to speak. His ideas on the
temperance question are well-known,
and generally accepted; but his anti
evolutionary ideas are distasteful to
thinking men and women.
* * * *
For years a man may do splendid
work, may be a power to sway the
minds of the people. The moment he
lapses and fails to keep up with the on
ward movement he becomes a derelict.
It takes but few hostile receptions to
break the spirit of a stone-set mind;
the growing mind will welcome the
chastisement, and go on.
* * * *
If a man becomes "sour," his power
is gone. His courage oozes and he be>
comes a burden. Not long ago, it was
not safe for a political speaker to mount
a soap box. In these days a certain
man persisted in speaking his opinion
of things generally. He was right ; but
the world was not prepared. After he
received six or seven beatings, his
heart was broken, and he became
"sour." Thinking of the ingratitude of
the world, he became a pessimist of the
worst type. He is now a harmless in
mate in a palace on a western hill. The
thing to avoid is losing heart,
* * * *
The^ first requisite in the armamen
tarium of a well equipped man or wom
an is understanding and wisdom. Un
derstanding to explain the whys of
things; wisdom to work out construc
tive plans. When one understands the
reason for a thing, fear of it is gone.
We o^ly fear the things we do not un
derstand.
*
The dawn man walking under the
boughs of the coniferous forest, heard
the wind moan. It was the voice of the
spirit and as he did not understand, he
worshiped, and the wind god took his
place in the galaxy of gods.
He wandered on and came to the
cataract. The roar of the falling wa
ters spoke in a mysterious voice and
meant something superior with power
to minister to him. Another god took
his seat in the halls of ignorance.
The clouds lowered and a jagged
streak of light rent the dun of heaven
and a tree fell and began to burn. The
-cloud god with majestic power arose
and to him the primitive man bowed
and offered sacrifices.
Against rocky cliffs the waves'beat
with ponderous force. Our cave man
saw trees tossed about. He didn t un- (
derstand. Neptune was enthroned and
when the superstitious early man ven
tured on the deep or the quiet waters
he prayed to the god of waters. He
didn't understand.
* * ¥ *
It is a crude but pregnant saying
that "what man can't lick he wor
ships." This is the tribute puny man
pays to power.
At the base of ancient religions and
many of to-day, is Fear. Fear of the
future developed a heaven where ail
was joy. Wise and greedy men cap
italized this idea and got men to act
as beasts of burden with promises of
future reward.
Christianity was a formidable men
ace to the existing form of government
in the third century. It was absorbed
by the state and emasculated. The
thought of the time was handed into
the keeping of a few men. They be
came the soul savers, preachers, law
yers, doctors and scribes; the seat of
all learning. It was found that it was
easier to shackle the minds and less
expensive than to keep iron rings on
their ankles.
* ¥ * *
If Fear were removed from the
world, man's inhumanity toward man
would be largely gone. Fear is the
basis of greed.
Greed is an element
of the human make-up for the season
that Fear of Poverty is constantly
standing in a sinister shadow.
If man were assured that he need
have no fear of the'earthly future, he
would raise for himself an entirely dif
ferent heaven, as well as establish dif
ferent relations between himself and
those around him.
The struggle for existence so often
spoken of as pertaining to the lowly
animal life is equally applicable to
man. The struggle goes on constantly.
Some early person invented Interest on
money and then human troubles really
began. The race has been struggling
under that incubus ever since. Interest
is the legitimate "profit" on business
transactions. Reasonable interest and
profits is only limited by the human de
sire for wealth. Some men exact two
percent per month on money loaned;
others even as high as ten per cent per
month.
This looks big, but it isn't nearly so
much as the ordinary person is beaten
out of every day of his life. Some
thing is wrong; but they don't seem
to be able to organize their efforts so
that they can make their protests ef
fective.
A few organized policemen can quell
a mob of J 0,000 unorganized people.
The forces governing society are or
ganized. There is a tacit agreement
that is never broken when the small
groups" interests are affected; for they
know that what affects one affects all.
Ignorance and Fear of taking to too
forward step prevents the men and wo
men who are carrying the burdens of
civilization to realize that what affects
one of their interests affects all. Pro
bably it will always be so. The minor
ity leads, strange to say. The man
ahead of his time can only find a few
minds anywhere equal to his own
takes the world 500 or 1000 years to
catch up. Christ could find only twelve
who could grasp his thought 2,000
years ago
tf # * *
There's something wrong when two
classes can clash and cause the mass to
suffer cold, inconveniences and finan
cial loss. These tactics don't go back
to the stone age. Juggling a
mon necessity is strictly a modern in
vention. What's Congress for if not to
correct such glaring errors in the econ
omic structure. We forgot, Congress
has nothing to do with it.
# * * *
The r.ca'i strike is to cost $5,000,000
a day. Dollars mean nothing. It's the
wasted labor that counts. It's a poor
boss that can't keep his help employed.
* * * *
It is said that supply and demand
controls. There's always a demand;
the supply is unlimited. It's the price
that controls. The fellow who controls
the Price is the real contrôler. Another
plan will be worked out and a new set
of cantrolers will be ushered in. It
won't be those who say "The public be
dammed.''
« « • *
Nothing was too good for the war
rior marching down the streets between
a line of cheering citizens several years
ago. His job was to be retained for
him, his future berth secure. The pa
thetic thing is that it was believed. A
sample of the protection was seen the
other evening when a one legged, one
armed ex-soldier was jostled roughly
out of a subway entrance for begging.
What memories we have and |how
grateful we are!
When Homer was reciting on the
streets of ancient Greece, a street cor
ner speaker was thrown into prison for
saying: "The rich are getting richer
and the poor are getting poorer."
Three thousand years later the soap
boxer is yanked off to prison for say
jng the same thing. It must be true.
for only the truth hurts.
THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page 1 )
is the time for you to act. Send in
your cash and help us to buy while
property is yet to be had at a low price.
It will some day be in the hands of the
great wealth grabbers and out of our
reach for a cash purchase. The Alge
bra .class was held as usual and after
it a very interesting agricultural meet
ing. Our people are especially inter
ested in growing jfruits of all kinds and
as the desire comes the thing will be
brought about, what we want we can
get and we want the best that can be
had and it is our intention to get it. I
just wonder how many of you people
are going to help us do the big job that
is before us all. Don't stand by to
watch us but do all yoif can and let
us do it NOW.
* ¥ * w
Saturday, April 15. — Ole and I re
turned home last night and found new
faces at the Colony. Miss Forbiss,
Chester Potts and August Tiede, all
looking into our Colony life, expecting
to locate here. Chester went out with
Ed Merrill and Krug to make fence
posts and they had a fish dinner to add
to the joy of living in Newllano. Ches
ter likes things so well he has decided
to stay and have the rest of the fam
ily come to join him here. Ole has the
mechanics making some necessary
apparatus for the rice farms and is pre
paring to take one farmer, another me
chanic and a'gardener down to help
get the croo planted and the machinery
all in good repair. This being Satur
day, of course the school children and
I had our usual lunch at the pool and
a big swim afterwards, and then Miss
Forbiss was shown some real co-opera
tion in aetion over where the fellows
are clearing the land for sorghum plant
ing. Here we found our mortar-mixer,
mechanics, carpenters, planing-mill
men, wood turner, cabinet makers,
brick masons and farmers all mixed in
to one big job, clearing land like a
bunch of beavers building a dam. Mar
chick, and Jones were handling the ca
bles that run from the stump puller to
the stumps to be extracted, while Bu
sick drove the team that works the pul
ler and extracts the stumps from the
ground. Usually it lifts the stump.
roots and all cut slick and clean, but
sometimes where the stump is old and
rotten, it will break off and then the
other fellows, Sharrer, Fred Anderson,
Lee, Reeves, C. Hoover, Wobleri Oak
ley, Matz, Darth, W. Beavers, and
Jaques dig around Mister Stump, set
fire to him and burn him out. Also
this crew fills up the holes apd the
ground is made ready and planted.
Within the next week this certain field
which lies just north of the Ford ranch,
is to be planted to sorghum. Sugar
will be made for our use and ensilage
for the cows and mules. Comrade^
Phillips is the cook for this gang at
noon and some of them are steady
boardèrs for him to feed. Siemens and
Vernon are dragging the stumps into
piles with a tractor, and at night they
haul a load, of stumps to the big boiler.
KHng is using the other Fordson plow
ing and getting the land ready to plant.
After he is through his days work, he
also brings in a load of stumps. J. Hoo
ver is co-operating with our neighbor
Ford and is building a line fence be
tween the two places and John, Krug,
and Merrill will have an extra mile
and a half of fencing to build to finish
enclosing our newly-cleared land. As
we came home from our tour of inspec
tion we found the children helping at
the garden again and Miss Forbess re
marked, "I have seen enough to con
vince me complete co-operation is a
success and I hope to convince others
who are near and dear to me that this
is the place for them to come and live.
As usual we had our dancing class
well attended and the dance was enjoy
ed until 10,30 oclock. The floor was
crowded and it makes us long for the
time when we can begin our dancing
at the roof garden. We expected to do
this by May 1st but so nyich planting
and seasonable work to do we will be
compelled to do our May Day dance in
the hotel again. Work to do, well I
say yes and no sign of unemployment,
down in our old town and no chance
of it either.
• * * *
—Sunday—
Well, Ole, Reeves, Waters and Pa
ton started for the rice plantation to
day. Reaves, Sanders and Ole will re
pair the machinery and return in two
or three days while Van and Waters
will stay and grow the garden for the
families and prepare wholesome food
for their use and the threshers who will
journey there later this fall. We will
soon have to take two firemen to this
job for about three months work. Quite
a crowd of the colonists drove to the
Anacoco creek for a day's outing and
the rest of us rested up at home, went
swimming etc. We had a real ball
game on the new grounds and our team
the short four regular players played a
fine game of ball allowing their oppon
ents but one score and that was on all
We will now take pride in build
ing up a real ball team such as co-oper
ators can have. The swimming pool
was a popular place today and both
young and old had a good time, swim
ming, diving, and playing water games.
In the a.m. Doc Thurman and a crew
of volunteers planted a large pafch of
cucumbers in about an hour's time. I
think the reason Doc planted so many
of them is that he expects to grow me
lons, pumpkins, squashes and, some
say, a new kind of genej-al fruit, from
grafting and budding to his cucumber
vines. Now, far be it from me to poke
fun at Doc; because he is so serious I
wouldn't offend him for the world; but
I do hope he succeeds in his new ven
ture, provided the tales are true. With
all Doc's wisdom, I have "me doots"
as to his success of this job. The men
tal science class was a good one to
night and two important questions
came up. One is "are people who are
working extremely hard to make the
Colony a success, even to the detriment
of their own health, doing a greater
service than if they would conserve per
sonal energy and let Colony affairs go
more slowly?" Well, it is a big ques
|tion, but I am of the opinion we are
taking the right course in doing the big
things as they present themselves for
our consideration. Those who work
extra hours usually do it because they
want too, and derive a certain amount
of pleasure out of it; and they are
accomplishing much good for our
cause in doing it. Most people are
from Missouri and must be shown, and
I believe it is up to us "to show them
soon, before it is too late. Many peo
ple couldn't believe we could be forc
ed into war a few years ago, but we
were. Few people believe we can be
thrown back into barbarism, but un
less the workers arouse themselves and'
get busy, they are sure to once more
have to make the slow climb from the
dark ages back to the light of a co-op
erative commonwealth. It is the next
step in civilization and the question is
"will we take it now or shall we step
back?" Comrades, we know it can be
done. Why not join us now and take
the step? You will soon be compelled
to move one way or the other. Which
way are you going? We are doing our
part and some times more. What are
you doing? The program at the thea
ter was good and closed a pleasant
day.
♦ * * #
Monday, April 17.—Lindsey, Kemp,
Denver Cryer and Smock are planting
corn out at the Lamb place. The land
clearing crew is the same as on Sat
urday and in a couple more days the
whole 80 acres should be cleared,
plowed, and ready for planting. Ches
ter Potts joined the garden crew, work
ing with Comrade Messenger, Benton,
Babb, Thurman, Buck* and Gault, in
the big garden and they are doing lots
of planting. We are now being sup
plied with lettuce, cabbage, carrots,
beets, turnips, rutabagas, radishes, on
ions, several kinds of greens and all the
strawberries we can eat. I should
sound good to you people who are still
in the frozen north. Our sugar cane
is coming up in. excellent shape and we
should have a fine crop this year; in
face, our prospects are better in the
food line than ever before. Out at the
dairy most of the cows are now giving
milk and Baldwin and wife, Miss Cry
er, Comrades Green and Rowe are busy
all the time. Some fine calves and
lots of young pigs have recently made
their appearance. A new churn just
arrived and we will soon be making
our own butter. Langridge and Rech
steiner have the stairs to the roof-gar
den built and painted and as soon as
we can get in some more logs and saw
out the lumber, we'll finish the roof
and lay the floor, and the job will be
done. Mother Shutt is back on the
job and Dad Bell is up and around; he
is now chief peanut shucker and is de
monstrating that hand methods ^re bet
ter than no methods at all. Joe is
again running the bakery wagon into
Leesville and Daniel is helping him to
bake the bread and pastry. H.-Bell is
kept "busy making peanut butter and
"sich" while Mrs. Gaddis and Mrs.
Sanders do their service as counter
jumpers in the store ahd keep Joe Gad
dis busy. Roede is again in the har
ness shop »and jumps me every day to
get a new shoe maker. Yes, we need
a shoe-makes, broom-maker, brick ma
son, tanner, and several other kinds of
workers very much. We are expect
ing to soon have a dentist come to live
$nd work among us. Our Colony life
is growing more and more complete ev
ery month and we are nearing our time
of a complete community rapidly. Som?
day we will be independent from the
outside necessaries, and then we are
ready to build for the larger program,
by establishing other colonies. Now,
comrades, is the time we need your
help and as soon as we are independ
ent, we can then take you and all oth
ers who may wish to come. That is
why we are calling upon you to help
finance the project now, so as to bring
the job to a conclusion. Later we can
then take workers who are unable to
Llano 125 Club
Is YOUR Club
Don't merely WATCH It Grow — Get In and Help!
Do you intend some day to make Llano your home?
Do you want a comfortable dwelling and the conveniences of a modern city
when you come?
Of course you do.
Then join the LLANO 125-CLUB immediately. This club is YOUR club.
Its purpose is to furnish the cash with which to build a place for YOU. We
will do the pioneering; we will do the actual work; but you must supply the
necessary cash.
125,000 Dollars will completely finance this Colony. It will give us com
plete ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with which to
build our modern city. It will give steady employment to several thousand per
sons and lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will
permit us to admit people who are good co-operators and are willing to give
their labor and moral support to our undertaking, but have not the money
with which to buy a membership. \
We want 125 persons to pledge themselves to furnish 1,000 Dollars each
THIS YEAR. This will enable us to do in ONE YEAR what is would take sev
eral years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with
your help we can do it much sooner.
v
On another page you will find a list of those who have already joined
the Club, and this will be published frequently, so that you may note its pro
gress. But don't merely WATCH it grow—get in and MAKE it grow.
On May 1, 1922, Llano Colony will have been eight
and within the last two years we have made
previous six years.
years in existence;
more progress than during the
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LOUISIANA
What will we do in the next two years?
THAT IS UP TO YOU!
Let the Colonists Hear from YOU today
finance themselves. The print shop is
very busy getting out our two weekly
papers, the magazine, and a new gate
way to freedom. Cantrell, Gleeser,
Buck, Newman and Mrs. Cantrell are
kept bustling to prevent their being co
vered up with work. Comrades Lou
trell, Sr., and Cuno.are acting as re
porters and solicitors and office devils
to assist all they can. Charles Strauss
is doing the broom factory work every
day, and on rainy days Babb goes in
and helps him get them out. At the
office—-well, don't mention it! We are
snowed under, and it is impossible to
get out all our correspondence and do
our other work. New subs to our pub
lications are coming in and we are af
ter the 100,000 sub list for the Colon
ist this year. Can't you help it along?
We are also doing all we can to bring
co-operators and their cash to combine
with us to completely finance this Col
ony now. Especially we are urging
you to help make this year's land pur
chase, which calls for $24,000. Don t
delay, comrades, you want the Col
ony to succeed; you must help to make
it a bis; success. And as our May pur
chase date nears we are much in need
of your assistance right now. Regard
less of the size of the amount you can
send, send it now. There will be more
opportunity for our consideration this,if
year than you can think of. Now is '
the time for us co-operators to make j
our harvest. You can help and it is j
your duty to do so if you expect to
bring about the Co-operative Common-j
wealth; you or some one else must
join it in order to make it materialize,
We have it started here and succeeding
on a smali scale; it is up to you to)a
make it grow. Are you with us? The
children's mental science class and or
chestra practice were the principal en
tertainments of this -evening,
| * * * *
Tuesday, April 18. — To-day's mail
brot a book from Geo. B. Sander, that
will be much used in giving informa
tion to out children. Also a package
of magazines arrived from Geo. W.
Guyer of N. Mex. And a box of tools
from J. B. Mars, of N. Mex. arrived by
express. We wish to thank these com
rades for their gifts. It has just been
.proven to younr truly that "ye lady re
porter" does not know everything about
| this place. A week or so ago some
fine aluminum steam cookers arrived
at the Colony, and one was turned over
to the hotel, the other to the cafeteria,
and just to-day a little bird whispered
it ino my ears that these were donated
by Comrade Messenger. Well, useful
donations from this fellow are so com
mon that I was not surprised;
must say we are extremely proud of the
cookers and will some time allow Com
rade M. to eat therefrom. A letter from
a comrade seems to me to hit the nail
on the head and I am going to give you
a part that seems to me is worth your
thinking about. If you have money
you are in a position to help; ir you
have none, you must come to the same
conclusions reached by this comrade.
"I have been reading your interest
ing paper and magazine since 1919.
Mother is also reading them.- We are
both rather interested and extremely
anxious, and entertain hope for the
day in the near future when we both
can join your Colony. But I venture
to say that, if I must depend upon pay
ing the required sum with savings from
my earnings, I am awfully in doubt
whether Mother and I will ever be be
stowed the pleasure to arrive at the Col
ony; as I am not an exception to the
rule of being out of employment for
nearly two years. The isolated state
of affairs everywhere may intensify
sufficient enthusiasm into the minds of
the more fortunate comrades to drive
them in sufficient numbers to the Col
ony and jointly furnish sufficient cash
to insure themselves and others. It
would be a kind deed and a humane act
c , r.
one-hundred and fifty comrades, fin
' an ci ally able, could in uc o join
j the Colony. _ rm won c ear e way
j for the less fortunate w o may en er
and give all f they have, ir anyt ing,.
If the 125-CLUB is not completely i -
led by the end or this y e «* r »
cause renewed and prolonged hardship
to me and other who never have had
chance to accumulate, except a tew
hundred dollars every twenty years.
and instead of accumulating more meet
with reverses and unforseen occurrenc
es such as sickness, robbery, fires, fre
quent and periodical lay-offs."
This comrade in a few words tells a
world-wide story. Our intention is to
admit such as these as soon as the
Colony is safely financed. Now, com
rades, there are so many ways you may
help and every dollar that comes in
does help—that I once more want to
urge you to do all you can at once and
let us make a way for those who are
so unfortunate as not to be able to
come on account of financial condi
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn