A iittle solo from John Bull on his
anglosaxophone entitled:" Oil for one
and one for oil".
Plant Them Now!
Australian
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A "NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the tame way as egg-plant
Mach resembles the latter—except
that by many colonists it is
mnch preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
6«kure with each packet of seeds.
* The colonist who introduced Aus
tralian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
Erie Labor Press
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
die interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
Organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Etie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50,
Trial Subscription—10 weeks, 25c.
T he Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"Tlie Scarlet Review," 25c, "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQU1T1ST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash.
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
(Do You Want Her?)
"A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts the new girl, as exem
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Centf
! Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
A May Day M'essage from
* } % . »
Resident Llano Colonists to You
By HOWARD L. BUCK:
What is JJ ano Colony? j
To some of you it will' mean one
thing, and to some, another. To some
the term "Llano" will suggest a vis
ion of future wealth and grandeur—-a
modern paradise of ease and comfort ;
to others, it will suggest the opportun
ity for self -improvement and self-devel,
opment ; to still others it will suggest
a beautiful ideal. AH very good.
But the first significance of "Llano"
to me is its human associations—the
"PEOPLE of Llano.
Llano Colony is not, nor ever can
be, an aggregation of property. Brick
buildings and a beautiful landscape can
not make a colony, nor can the lack
of them unmake it. Llano is not an en
vironment, but a people—a group of
devoted and high-minded "samidean
oj," living and working together to
ward a common goal.
Comrades arrive among us who at
once appreciate this—comrades who
have, probably, more than the aver
age of us, the ability to get acquainted
quickly, and an intuitive understanding
of human nature, and the problems of
human adjustments and relationships,
man to man. Like a duck takes to the
water, they take to us—the PEOPLE
—the COLONY—and its aims.
Other comrades arrive among us.
They are just as sincere, just as true
idealists, perhaps; but they judge
Llano, first of all, by exteriAr appear
ances. They see our old houses. They
see our comparative lack of modern
conveniences. One good comrade re
cently visited us. At the end of the
first day he was ready to go. He saw
our undeveloped resources and the pi
oneer conditions under which we are
working. These to him were Llano
Colony." Our real material progress
of recent months—acquirement of
thousands of acres of land, and pay
ment of former debts; and the im
provement of land two miles away from
our townsite— are not visible to the
eyes. He was disheartened and disap
pointed. Then he began to get ac
quainted with the PEOPLE. He learn
ed more of our aims and ileals and of
what we are really doing. He caught
the inspiration. The longer he re
mained, the more he was fascinated
by "Llano"; and when finally busi
ness duties necessitated his return
■home, he was a member of the LLANO
125-CLUB, and,- leaving, left behind
him the assurance that he would be
one of us in the near future.
In fact, there are many of us who
have been here several years and like
Llano better with every passing month.
I am one of them, having lived in the
Colony almost continuously for five
years.
And the modern city, with all its
modern improvements? Sure. We
want it. We purpose to have it. We
are at last in a position to build it.
We ARE now building it. But when
we get it, THAT will not be "Llano."
Llano" will be the people who live
therein, and who will enjoy these
things the more that they are the pro
duct of the hand and brain of "Llano."
For the only way to really possess à
thing is to have created it.
No, we do not wish to "go back to
Nature." We are on the read "to Na
ture" all right; but the road we travel
is forward. No "backward" stuff for
„„J We shall endeavor to "hold fast
to that which is good," in the old as
well as in the new, and shall, insofar
as possible, adopt every new invention
and discovery which can in any Svay
add to the sum total of human happi
ness and efficient living.
So, friends and comrades, when you
come to visit Llano, seek it not in vine
clad bungalows and fertile fields and
lowing herds of cattle; but search it
FIRST in throbbing human hearts—
souls aglow with life and hope and in
spired with a vision of better things.
Seek it in the bright ideals of loving
men and women and the happy, care
free laughter of little children. There
will you find—"Llano."
* * * *
By A. E. W. JAQUES:
Our attention was first called to the
Llano Colony at a lecture by Frank E.
Wolfe while we were spending our va
cation during the Christmas holidays in
1914, in Pasadena, Cal. Comrade
Harriman was supposed to lecture that
evening, but was taken sick, so Frank
Wolfe lectured in his stead.
The co-operative idea had always
been our ideal and, of course, as soon
as we found a bona fide effort to put
it into practice, we both became boos
ters at once.
Returning to Eureka, Cal., at the end
of our vacation, we kept on boosting
and when we read the prospectus of
the Colony before the Socialist Local
there, it caused a barrage fire of ques
tions, one of the chief ones being, what
help would a Colony of this sort be to
the average "blanket stiff," who had
no money to buy a membership. The
LLANO 125-CLUB answers that ques- (
tion to-day.
■It was in May, 1915, after a thor
ough study "and considerable corre
spondence that we made our initial pay
ment on an installment membership,
which was completed in April, 1921.
We then disposed of our property in
Oakland and Eureka, bought a c&t and
started for the land of hope on July
2nd. We visited my parents in Chico,
Cal. for about 10 days, then stopped
over in Sacramento to attend the ex
ecutive board meeting of Dist. 102 In
ternational Assn. of Machinists, as I
was a delegate from Dist. 6.
We reached Los A n S e l es °n July 21
and stopped to bid farewell to Mrs.
Jaquès' folks.
While there I worked in a garage
and machine shop and continued our
visit for about seven weeks. On Sept.
12th we Started oh the last lap of our
journey to the promised land, and af
ter a journey of 21 days over desert,
mountain and plain, roads that were
good, bad and indifferent, we arrived
at the Colony on Monday, Oct. 3rd,
in time for dinner.
On this date our real education be
gan. When one begins to co-operate
in earnest, there is no limit to the op
portunities open for him to display his
skill as a worker, talent in any profes
sion, or prowess in athletic or aquatic
sports. Our Colony is a University in
the true sense of the word.
* * * *■
By ALBERT KAPOTSY: '
I have come to the Llano Co-opera
tive Colony for three reasons. First,
because I believe that labor—both men
tal and physical—is the creator of all
wealth. And wealth socially used
should be socially owned. Therefore,
I wanted to expend my labor power in
a place where socially used wealth is
created for the benefit of all. It is a
fact that, since I have been here I
have never heard one objection or one
dissenting voice to anything being so
cially owned. In fact the Colony is
such an immense undertaking that on
ly a several-times millionaire company
woijld dare to undertake such vast im
provements that the Colony is doing
to-day—indivilually is would be im
possible.
The second reason I am here is, that
I wanted to give my children in their
early years a training from a view
point of the working class. Uncon
sciously they certainly get it. They are
happy and enjoy the Colony life.
Thirdly, I came here to have undis
turbed opportunity—as to economic
conditions—to finish certain studies
I had started and felt need of in my
experience in the labor movement, and
could not make satisfactory headway
because of the unsuited economic con
dition of the capitalist system to the
highest development of the individual
member of the society. During my
stay here I have had absolutely no wor
ry as to rent, groceries, butcher, cloth
ing, washing and mending, shoe repair
ing, light, heat, express, carfare, doctor
bills, amusements, or any other kind
of bills; and a person can certainly
concentrate on any subject he sees fit.
It is 1 entirely up to him or her.
It is part of the spirit of the Colony
in reciprocity of the labor— thçy call
it "service"—not only to care fbr the
economic need of the individual, but
to urge and assist to the extent of the
Colony power everyone to become the
highest type of trained men and wo
men in their respective callings. Al
ways keeping in mind, that in the train
ing of the individual the spirit of social
service should predominate instead of
profit seeking.
The Colony is in its pioneering stage
and has its experimental ups and
downs. In spite of different opinions
as to different questions, it is elevating
to see a bunch of earnest men and wo
men do their level best for a socially
ownee^ institution. It deserves your
moral and financial support.
Since my stay here I was detailed
partly in my own trade, that is of
plumbing and partly in the farming de
partment, in which I have been,most
ly, plowing and hauling with a Fordson
tractor. I have done also some fruit
tree spraying. ïn the plumbing line I
have Said about 1,000 feet of water
piping. I installed hot and cold water
supply in the Kindergarten Cafeteria,
the water being brought from the big
elevated tank at the hotel. We also
placed a large sink there for dishwash
ing. I have also piped for water and
steam five large vats for tanning pur
poses. Lately I have installed a hot
and cold water supply to the milk
house at the dairy using 3 hotwater
jackets connected together and with
a brick fire pot underneath fbr hot wa
ter storage boiler using an old large
heater. I have also rearranged the hot
water supply at the hotel where a large
quantity of hot water is being used al
most every hour of the day. At pre
sent about 200 ft of waste and sewer
Ém
piping is under construction from the
dairy house and milkhouse, taking the
sewage from a sink and the bottle
washing tubs in the milk house and
from a shower bath.
I also have had several smaller re
pair jobs at Leesviile, which help our
income. Wish we had some more, but
you know the old competitive system
is doomed. The future belongs to the
co-operative system. I also wish to
mention that we are in need of all
kinds of material in the plumbing
line, and anything our friends may
send us will be greatly appreciated.
The Plumber.
* * * * y
By MRS. HELENE NORGARD
De?r Bess:—At fhe end of a beau
tiful day, I am sitting here looking out
upon wonderful shades of green foli
age, from the most delicate light greens
to the dark of the magnolias; and as
my thoughts drift to the "outside" I
wish that many less fortunately-situat
ed were here, too. As you know from
reading a few numbers of the papers,
we are preparing as rapidly as possible
for those who wish to come. Judging
from the letters that we get into this
office, the economic pressure will has
ten their arrival. Most people are wor
rying—about their income, their prop
erty, their jobs (or lack of them), their
children, and so on ad infinitum.
Now, Bess, in-' a community of this
kind there are no individual worries;
We are progressing, not retrogressing.
Work is a real joy; for we feel that
all the energy we expend helps at least
in a small way in the demonstration
being made here. Let me tell you,
Bess, if you should ever taste the real
satisfaction of living in a co-operative
colony like ours, you would never want
to go back to that old outworn system.
Neither would Ernest. You are both
co-operators by nature, anyway. No
one need have any fear as to their
children here. The community takes
care of them in such a way that they
develop into natural, self-reliant boys
and girls*, with a feeling of responsi
bility to others and the community
in general. They learn to serve cheer
fully. It becomes second nature to
them. Many a time I have heard the
regret expressed by older colonists that
they did not grow up in a community
like this. However, no matter how old
they are when they enter here, they
grow younger in mind and spirit from
that time on. The social life is IDEAL
and there are any number of classes
A Circulation of
100*000
NOT LESS, FOR
73he
Llano Colonist
Every progressive sjiould be a reader of THE LLANO
COLONIST and it is up to you and all of us to see that it
reaches them. *
Let's start right NOW and make it a point to see that
every person whom we think would be interested in Llano
or in co-operation in general, becomes a subscriber to The
Llano Colonist, YOUR weekly paper. Many are order
BUNDLES weekly for distribution among their friends.
Celebrate May Day by Getting
ONE More New Reader
Send in that New Reader and Order a Bundle for
distribution and DO IT NOW
and meetings to fit all .natures and
wants.
What about the status of women,
you say? The economic independence
she enjoys under complete co -opera
tion will bring about her emancipation.
She will render service to the commun
ity and will be relieved from drudgery
in the home, and, given an opportun
ity of development along the lines of
■her preference, which fact will become
more and more clear to women as we
emerge from this pioneering stage (The
electric light plant ni now in process of
materialization). Personally, I feel
that there is much more satisfaction in
being here on the ground and helping
build up the community, than it would
be to come in when it is further along
in development..
Why don't -one or more of you folks
up there subscribe for our live paper
with a live community behind it?
Hoping to hear from you soon, and
with kindest regards to your own good
self and Joan and all, I remain,
Your friend
(Mrs.) Helene Norgard
\ * ¥ * * .
By WILLIAM ENGLAND:
Well Friend Cricklewood, you have
asked me so often to give you some
information about Llano Colony that
your persistence and interest merit a
response. So be all attention. The
following was overheard the other day
by a radio phone operator and is en
dorsed as correctly presenting the mat
ters touched upon:
! "What ship is that?"
I "Brig 'Last Resource' of Mobile,
bound for Bordeaux—and you?" "Col
ony Freighter 'Co-operator,' of New
Orleans—want anything?" "Yes, give
us some information about the Co-oper
ative Colony you plough the seas for."
"Well, the rolling deep is a strange
place for you to come aboard my shi#
with such an inquiry! btat as the ship
represents the Colony, Neptune as
senting, will give you some particulars.
Don't forget, old salt, that Colony life
is a new and strange experience for
all unprepared and inexperienced
would-be colonists. To be suddenly
called upon to practice considerable
self-denial, economy and other virtues,
combined with much activity, change
of scene and work, is some revelation.
For example, 'a versatile comrade, full
of pep and vitality, may be assisting
at the fertilizer plant; yet but an hour
previous he may have been in the bake
shop sniffing cinnamon rolls and
punching dough for the daily bread,
and, before that, chopping some wood,
a^d" possibly earlier ill the day helping
to shingle a roof, finally, when finish
ing the day's work, reaching the hotel
with many other out-of-breaths for
supper. And so it goes. Tis called
"Co-operation," and under present ex
istiiig conditions and of dire necessity,,
can spread but à few workers over
much ground and effort; rtevertheless»
the results are comparable to the greea
leafy covering of the trees ashore*
which but a little more than'six weeks
ago were bare and brown. Watching^,
them, one could not see the green,
leaves continually emerging, yet, lo!
they kre in full canopy ! So with Col
ony development; one year ago „the
following did not exist: Fertilizer plant
plumbers' shop, electrical shop, photo
shop, poultry ranch, new brick kiln»,
laundry drying room, shoiver bath
house, raw food cafeteria, new- two
room cottages, Roof Garden, Large E—
lectric power plant (purchased) four -
acres of Kudzu vines, additional new
room cottages. Roof garden, large
electric power plant (purchased), four
acres of kudzu vines, additional new
equipment, such as large engine anc£
boiler, large truck and tractors, etc.,
excellent school, Colony chorus, juven
ile orchestra, and classes for music*
singing, agriculture, etc. Then, there
are some 121 hogs of all sizes, 69 dairy
cows and calves, 14 miles of fence, 65*
gates, with 750 acres under fence, and,
last but not least, the new state road.
Quite a surprising number of installa
tions and expansions in such a short
period; therefore a reflective mind cait
well realize where things are likely to»
be three years hence. Having given
you some very vital information, prov
es the Colony is npt anything vision
ary or moribund, and is ccontinually
expanding toward final emergence into
full sunshine and prosperity. And re^
member, its spiritual counterpart ex
ists. I May its stewardship be unerring
ly guided with wisdom and understand
ing. Bon voyage Brig "Last Resource'
and adieu. Thank you "Co-operator"
and Godspeed. „
¥ * *
By FRED MONTROSE:*
Years ago, when I was "on the out
side," how I would welcome the day
when the Colonist arrived. That was
the day when the whistle, denoting that
the day's work was done sounded bet
ter than all the other working days of
the week, and five o'clock could never
come too soon for me.
As soon as I arrived home I found
that my better half had devoured-the
entire contents of the Colonist, and
was eager to tell me all that had trans
pired during the week in that far-away
cöuntry where a brave band of com
rades were striving to cleave a path
from capitalism to co-operation; where
self-denial was a common event among
them; and where sacrifice was made
upon the altar of desire in order that
the class to which they belbnged could
create from mother earth work and
plenty for all.
(Continued on page 3)