»USglAN DELEGATION *
GAINS DIPLOMATIC VICTORY
(By The Federated Preis)
Genoa (by cable). — Russian coun
ter claims against the allies to balance
the prewar czarist state debts are the
snag holding up the European econom
ic conference.
Lloyd George and the French want
"Russia to promise first that it will re
cognize the prewar debt regardless of
the war claims that may or may not
T>e allowed later.
The Russian delegation insists that
the war claims and the prewar debt
must be considered t together, fearing
that prior recognition by Russia of the
prewar debt may give the allies a
chance to repudiate the claims arising
out of the assistance they gave td Rus
sian counter-revolutionists, which Rus
sia has estimated at 25 billion gold ru
bles ($12,500,000,000). V 1
George Ghicherin and his fellow Rus
sian delegates have detailed proposals
to cover each point raised in the Lon
don memorandum of the allies, which
-contemplated turning Russia into
spheres of influence for the advanced
industrial powers.
Talk is beginning to spread of the
failure of the Genoa conference and of
the «calling of another conference in the
fall at which the subjects now forbid
den by France will be discussed.
The common sense of the Russian
position that disarmament is the first
■step towarad economic stability is re
cognized by everyone but the French.
The German contention that repara
tions are an integral part of any finan
cial proposals is also recognized. It is
evident that the French taboo on dis
armament and reparations had ham
strung the conference in advance.
Meanwhile French newspapers con
cede that the Russians have carried off
the diplomatic victory.
SHALL IT BE A SOVIET GERMANY?
i (By The Federated Pre»»)
New York. — "Germany may be
forced into a coalition with Soviet Rus
sia," is a statement attributed to Hugo
"Stinnes, German financier, by Phelan
13eale, a New York lawyer, just return
ed from a month in Berlin. Beale, who
talked with Stinnes and with Dr. Gus
tav Stesemann, leader of the People's
party in the reichstag, declared that
if the present economic situation con
tinues; if prices continue to increase
and the mark to decrease, "Germany
■will go the way of Russia."
START YOUR OWN BANKS
Seattle. — Fifty million American
■workers systematically saving $2 a
month each, could control the liquid
finances of the nation in five years.
This was the message delivered here
to the Central Labor council by 'Waltet
"M. McCaleb, manager Cleveland bank
•of the Brotherhood of Locomotive En
gineers, which has assets oftnore than
$14,000,000.
MOTHERS TO THE RESCUE
(By The Federated Pres»)
Seattle. — Women who opposed the
introduction of military training in the
"high schools here recently were told
that they could be executed in wartime
for such actions. Angry militarists bel
lowed at the school board meeting for
arms training, but the less dramatic
Tjut no less firm attitude of the women
and mothers of high school lads, pre
sented passage of a resolution which
'would have placed uniforms on all male
school students.
The Labor News
The "Labor News" published in Al
toona. Pa., is the largest LABOR PA
PER published in the state» and gives
you the labor news from home.
LABOR NEWS PUB. C.
ALTOONA, PA. •
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLAHR, Nature Cure
Author, says:
"Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
land question from the Henry George
viewpoint, I felt that there was some
thing wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the little things over
-which we stumble every day that we
don't see. You are the first one who
has harmonized the land problem and
the wage question;—Henry George and
Marx."
' A concise, clothbound volume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
rency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, La.
UNITED LABOR WILL
WIN THE WORLD
(By The Federated Pres«)
Masontown, Pa. — A series of mon
ster mass meetings in the Connellsville
coke region has swept aside for the
time being the opposition of local pol
iticians and state constabulary.
Seven thousand miner? billed Gallitin
Gardens in Uniontown in the first labor
demonstration in that city since Henry
C. Frick smashed unionism in the fe
rocious days of the early 90's. It was
an overwhelming mass movement that
found Jts climax when Organizer Wil
liam Feeney called on all who wished
to join the United Mine Workers to
come forward and the crowd that had
been standing in the amphitheater
surged forward with the force of the
tide.
"Local authorities are afraid to in
terfere with this determined bunch,"
said a union official explaining the sit
uation, and as I looked over that army
of powerful men with the light of hope
shining in their eyes I could well be
lieve it.
A CHILDREN'S CRUSADE
(B, -n,. Federated P_.,
St. Louis. —^ Children, wives and,'
mothers of political prisoners who are
still cpnfined in federal penitentiaries,
were "to start from St. Louis Monday
on a latter day children's crusade, not
to free the holy city from the infidel
Turks, but to urge the United States
gojprnment at Washington to release
the 113 men still in prison for their
political opinions during wartime.
There were 21 in thç party. Other
groups will be picked up at Chicago,
Detroit, New York and Philadelphia,
and numerous other cities will be vis
ited on the way.
Arriving at Washington April 29, the
child crusaders will attempt to see Pres
ident Harding to ask him for a general
amnesty for wartime political oppend
ers.
EUROPEAN LABOR DE
NOUNCES FRENCH ATTITUDE
•[By The Federated Press)
Genoa (by cable). ■— The unmask
ing of French militarism by the Russian
delegation at th'e European economic
conference has made a profound im
pression on public opinion.
The refusal of France to discuss dis
armament, after Russia's invitation, has
enhanced the prestige of Chicherin, the
head of the Russian delegation, who
maneuvered the soviet tactical victory.
All European labor sections are de
nouncing the French attitude.
Marcel Cachin, editor, L'Humanité,
the largest French daily, declared:
"Louis Barthou, who is heading the de
legation of Frafice at Genoa, is the bru
tal embodiment of French militarism.
While capitalist statesmen in their
speeches confess inability to re
construct Europe and wail tragically
at the state of the world, the Russiana
propose disarmament as the first great
step to relieve the situation, even of
fering to collaborate with the capital
istic states in the necessary reconstruc
tion."
WORKERS UNITE
(By The Federated Press)
Seattle. — State Federation of Là*
bor, Grange, Non-Partisan League,
Railwaymen's Political club and the
Good Government league in this sta^e
have entered a mutual compact to put
across progressive initiative measures
in ,the coming state election. À liberal
workmet's compensation act, an in
jnuction by trial law, repeal of the
poll tax, more self-government for mu
nicipalities and non-partisan state el
ections are the measures being further
ed by the alliance.
SOCIALIZATION PLANS
ABANDONED IN GERMANY
(By The Federated Pre»)
Berlin. — In spite of protests of all
working class parties, the socialization
commission, created soon after the Ger
man revolution, has been abolished by
the reichstag. This commission had
been created with lavish promises that
at least a beginning would be made
with the socialization of basic indus
tries, especially coal. The official abol
ition of the commission recognizes
what has long bçen a fact—the com
plete abandonment by the government
of socialization plans,
LABOR SOLIDARITY AND
PEACEFUL PROGRESSION
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Washington. — Mexico has seen the
last of coups d'etat, such as the over
throw of Madero by Victoriano Huerta
and such as the fatal attempt by Gen.
Carranza to destroy the free exercise
of the right of suffrage, says Canuto
A. Vargas, secretary, Pan-American
Federation of Labor, in the current
American Federationisî. He attributes
the new security of democratic power
in Mexico to the labor movement.
MAY DAY MESSAGES
(Continued from page 2)
And as I picked up the Colonist, how
eagerly would I scan its pages for the
evidence that all was well in that place
I yearned to some day call my home,
that t o canker of unrest or dissatisfac
tion had come among that brave band
of pioneers who had cast their lot and
their all on the altar of true comrade
ship, the world and all that the world
offered them at the expense of their
brothers, to come here to prepare a
place whqje work would be in plenty,
and where* work would be a pleasure
for all who wished to come. And as I
read on, I would dream of the immense
possibilities that are offered to the work
ing class of America in the cutover land
of Louisiana, and my heart woyld go
out in sympathy with those comrades
who had segregated themselves from
the rest of the world to prepare a place
for me and mine; . With such thoughts
as this flitting through my mind, I won
dered how many thousands of the read
ers of the Colonist held out the same
hope as my family did,, until I found
that every reader, and thousands who
were not, held the same jnental attitude
to the Colony. Then I knew that—
OF THE WORLD ARE
' « « « *
By J. HOMER CLARK:
Many years ago I became thorough
ly convinced that the profit system of
business was- wrong in principle. A
profit is that which one receives in a
business transaction for which be does
not give an equivalent in goods or ser
vice. Since everything of commercial
value must be produced by human la
bor, if I receive more than I produce,
someone else must necessarily receive
less than he produces. Is the accum
mulation of wealth, then, a thing of
which to be proud? Should I not ra
ther be ashamed to consume that for
which I have not returned an equiva
lent? and be proud when I can feel
that I have rendered my share and
more of service to the world? If eve
ryone in the world had these ideals,
competition would not be wrong mor
ally; but ever then it would not be an
economical methods It is only when
each works for the best interests of all
under an efficient organization, that
best results will be obtained.
How, then, can we change over from
a competitive, profit system to a co-op
erative, altruistic system? When I
first heard of the Llano Colony, it ap
pealed to me as being the best solution
of the problem I had ever heard of.
And the more I read about it the more
I felt that I ought to join and help to
make a success of the undertaking
But, being under the necessity of earn
ing my daily bread, and also of rais
ing the amount of the entrance fee, I
could only read and talk about it, till
finally I broke away and made a visit
to the Colony.
I must say that my first impressions
were disappointing. At the end of the
first day I was about ready to go home
and forget it. I was judging by the
surface appearances. Things looked
so primitive. And yet, one of the first
things I noticed was the friendly, fra
ternal spirit manifest among the colon
ists, which made even me, a stranger,
feel at home. And then I saw the chil
dren. They always interest me. The
hope of the future lies with the chil
dren. I noticed how healthy and fine
they looked. I couldn't help but !e
mark, "What a fine-looking lot of girls
there are here!" And after spending
the week-end hire, I had to add, "I
think I never saw a more well-behav
ed group of children."
While I missed some of the delicacies
of the table I am used to, I found the
cafeteria lunches served to the chil
dren—and such others as care to eat
there—quite satisfactory. I was de
lighted to hear the splendid music giv
en by the h8-çiece orchestra, under the
leadership of the school principal. I
think you haye a valuable asset in the
persons of Prof, and Mrs. Martin.
As I talked with your devoted and
able Manager Pickett and others, and
turned matters over in my own mind,
it became more and more apparent that
you are making a sacrifice of present
comforts while laying a solid founda
tion for the future. You are working
out an ideal—and ideals are the big
things that count. I can picture in my
mind a beautiful group of well-con
constructed brick huildings surrounding
refreshingly green little park on a
rise of ground sloping up from the sta
tion of the K. C. S. railway, with homes
having modern conveniences, inhabit
ed by a people happy because they are
industrious, honest, intelligent, altruis
tic.
The longer I stay here the better I
like it. I think I had better go home
before I take root.
I just want to add a word of cheer
to the devoted women who are doing
the drudgery and getting along with
out the conveniences they have been
used to. Let us hope that they may
soon enjoy the comforts that are com
ing, I believe, and the satisfaction of
having done their duty when things
looked the most discouraging.
My well-wishes are with the Colony
till such time as I can find it possible
to job with you.
ft « V« t<> <
I \ i
: m
Once
a
i « • V
Club
«■H
Every day we receive letters from friends of the Colony who express a
desire to help us in some Way, but who are unable to take out a membership
or join the 125-CLUB; and, until now, there has been no way for them to do
so. Now comes a comrade with a suggestion for a systematic plan by which
our many supporters of small means may assist in the up-building of the Colony.
We are now compelled to spend much of our time and energy in produc
ing articles for sale ir. the local markets in order to meet current ^aüpenses.
There would be no objection to we we» fesiUS&g only for ourselves;
in fact, we should then extend such business to the limit. But we are not
building for ourselves alone; our plans are far greater than that—we are build
ing for the thousands who are to come—we are building for YOU, Comrades.
And eVery hour we spend in manufacturing products for sale outside of the
Colony retards just that much the progress of the Colony as a whole. Every
minute of our time; every ounce of our energy, should.be put forth in the
actual work of building and clearing and preparing for you, who are to come
later. The more we are able to do this, the sooner you will be able to join us.
There are also many of, our friends who, for various reasons, will not
make Llano their permanent home, but who, nevertheless, wish to see it grow
and be a successful demonstration of the theories they have always believed
in. Now it is possible for them to assist the movement in a practical way
Llano
Dollar-Up
1 m
Acting on the suggestion of this coiprade, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
has been formed, and we now invite our thousands of well-wishers through
out the country to take advantage of the opportunity thus offered them.
The LLANO DQLLAR-UP CLUB is composed of comrades who pledge
themselves to give a dollar or more a month, the money to be used to meet
curPent expenses. These expenses are comparatively small, the most of our
food and necessaries we produce for ourselves; but there are some things
that we must buy and pay cash for.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB will do this for US and allow US to
keep on steadily building for YOU.
We are expecting you, comrades, to help us prove to the world that we
are right. You may depend on us to do our very utmost—may we depend
upon you?
If You Can't Help a Lot,
HELP A LITTLE!
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
Newllano, via Leesville, La.