RAILWAY PLUTES ARE
ABOVE THE LAW
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Chicago. — American railroads
. -f ,
acting as a unit began Tuesday a new
attempt to obtain permission to cut the
wages of a million and a half railroad
employes and to do away with the
standard rates of railroad wages which
now prevail throughout ' the nation.
Uisregardmg the protest or railway la-1
bor representatives, the United States
railway labor board permitted roads
which have violated the provisions of
the federal transportation act and sac
rificed thereby their right to bring
cases before the board to present ap
peals for wage cuts. All rail workers
except train and engine service men
are involved.
If a man is unhappy, this must be
his own fault, for God made all men
to be happy.—Epictetus.
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP—this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp and the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked; then it flows out at the other
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining of
white sugar. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
ter—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about 1J4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food value. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and plain. Try a pound of this and
see what Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to:
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA.
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
Made and Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing pioblem in: —
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital ^re high or low. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA,
THE LURE, WITCHERY
AND TREACHERY OF GOLD,
From Europe comes the report that
.< o ¦ £ i /.I -, r
,the Swiss frank (the money unit of
me owiss iranx <,tne money unit or
c . , ,
er ^ " as experienced an un
precedented inflation in value.. It is
in demand everywhere over there, and
consequently commands a premium ov
er a „ money units of other Eur0 n
. . , . . ,
COU j ntr ' eS -. secre " not , fa ' to
* or ll IS " ue to l " e * act bus
iness people in Europe quite generally
stipulate that for goods supplied, etc.,
payment is to be made in Swiss franks
and thus a general demand has been
created for Swiss money
Thus it will be seen that as long as
a certain kind of secredness is imputed
to contracts, whether they are equita
ble or not, when once entered into, and
as long as the validity of a certain
payment, stipulated in contracts, is up
held and enforced by the courts, even
if governments should no longer coin
it, and legal tender money were also
abolished, the monopolizers of gold
would still be in a position to control
and exploit the industries of the world
through the instrumentality of private
contract and the sacredness imputed
to it and sustained by the courts, if
— uj „, v „
payment in gold were still specifically
contracted for and by weight at that,
It is not a mere accident that it has
become quite general in financial cir
cles to specify in all contracts for de
ferred payments that the same must
be discharged m coined gold of a s
ified weight and fineness. And it is
also not a mere accident when these
gentlemen want gold retained as the
basis of the public medium of exchange
even if coinage and legal tender issues
of government be done away with. For
as long as gold is recognized as a bas
is of the medium exchange, it will en
able the monopolizers of gold to re
tain control over the money of account
that will be used, and they will con
tinue to have the industries and the
business concerns of the nation under
their thumb as today.
Only the most criminal favoritism
can 'concede to the owners of gold a
pre-eminence in the business world
that is discriminatory to the owners of
all other forms of property and to the
destructive detriment of the public at
large.
Gold is no more necessary to impart
a definable value to a money of ac
count (a currency) than is platinum 01
diamonds. Would people be unable to
swap or barter goods of any descrip
tion whatsoever with one another pro
vided the last ounce of gold were sunk
nit iaoL uuntc ui guiu were suiiK.
into the depths of the ocean beyond
the reach of mankind forever? If not
why should it be permitted to interfere
with the free, unimpeded and uninter
Jrupted exchange of products and ser
;
vi « s? . , A .
During the American Livii War, gold
, sl , unk out s »8 ht the con ^ m P i }
ble cur and coward it is; and only
back jn the game to put
. , . . . ¦
. sneaked back m the _
. American nation into an unnecessarily
( big indebetdness, which hasn't been
n
paid yet and is still vampïre-ïike sap
-
ping the life blood of the nation.
We are well aware of the fact that
the bulk of business to-day is transac
ted with non-legal-tender bank notes
and deposit currency and the wide
spread unemployment throughout the
nation and the millions of farmers ruin
ed through its instrumentality, isel
oquent testimony as to its pernicious
character.
The claim is advanced in some quar
ters that the value of gold must be
maintained.. That if all the labor ex
pended in the search and mining for
gold is taken into account, its present
proportionality of value is not too
high. It sounds very plausible, in
deed. But why should the high value
of gold be any more sustained than
the value of silver? If the labor cost
in prospecting and mining for silver
had been considered, its former high
er value should also have been sus
tained by law, but it was not.
. . The
writer has done a whole lot of work
prospecting for gold and silver for
which he never has reaped any re
turn.. Look, at all the former tools,
primitive machinery, and household
goods that in the course of time have
been thrown in the discard and which
^c-.were a dead loss to the owners. Why
shouldn't their value also have been
! sustained?
| Gold is no more necessary for a sat
isfactory monetary system than is plat
mum or diamond, or any other rare
but practically useless thing. Vanity
and surreptious greed are the back
ground for the high value of gold and
diamonds, and the bubble will burst
as soon as the people will get on to
the little game.
Many of the different money theo
ries are gotten up for no other pur
pose than to confuse the people. The
money question is a mighty simple pro
position when you once realize that
producers of every description can on
ly pay for what they get with what
they themselves produce or the useful
serveces they can perform. Legally
»„j „„kr 1 : 11 11.
as meS nf Tw SUCh lhing j
as means of equitable payment, and
P °il n | Ce A C n ntraCtS W u n tHey are|
ESt" f f, l contacts
ir he forfeited and outlawed for
ever. This would settle the money
problem.
The disparity between the monies
wciwccu me monies
°* *" e world entirely disappear if all
them everywhere were issued in a
1 definite relation and in the same pro
' P° r '' on productive labor as ought
to be the case.. It costs the same
amount of labor to produce a given
article in one country as in another,
when raw material is obtainable on the
same terms.. In domestic as well as in
international trade goods should only
be exchanged for othre goods and on
no other condition. The delusion of
a favorable balance of trade would
then disolve in thin air and be blown
into millions of smithereens, never to
be reintegrated in the human mind
again.
Nothing should ever be exported that
the people require for their own use
at home. And on the other hand noth
ing should ever be imported that can
be produced at home. Commerce with
other communities and other countries
should be reduced to the utmost min
imum and carried on at a minimum
expense. When that is done and when
cAjjcuse. wnen tnat is done and when
equity rules locally then the producer
will prosper, and not before.
The debt system is entirely unnec-|
COI-«/ • * • . . .
eisary and as a vicious imposition it
should be repudiated and never be tol
erated again.
DEMAND REVOCATION
OF LEWIS OUTRAGE
(By The Federated Press)
Belleville, III.. — Restoration of the
outlawed officials and members of the
Kansas district, United States Mine
Workers of America, is demanded in
a resolution adopted by Subdistrict 7
of Illinois.
The resolution reads:
"Whereas, the miners and official
r rv. . v ,uu ^ , ° a " u ulllciais
of District No. 14 (Kansas) are out-1
side of the United Mine Workers of
America because of the action of In
ternational executive board, and
Whereas, it has become necessary
for us as an organization to be united
in the coming conflict with the oper
ators,
'Therefore, be it resolved, that Sub
district No. 7 of District 12, U. M. W.
of A., demand that the autonomy be
restored to the officials and miners of
District 14, with all rights and privi
liges as they had prior to October,
1921, and
"Be it further resolved, that a copy
of this resojution be sent to the editor
of the United Mine Workers' Journal,
and to The Federated Press for public
ation."
Why do so many men never amount
to anything? Because they don't
think,—Edison.
HENRY FORD'S IDEA ENDORSED
BY THOMAS A. EDISON
By George D. Coleman
Henry Ford has proposed that the
thirty millions needed to complete the
work at Muscle Shoals be obtained not
^ î he issuan ?. e of bor ' d , s wh ° se . a "T
ed interest will amount to sixty-six mil
Governor th<
fjcu , ty cou , d easj , be a ed " We
wjIi issue bjl , s endorsed by t h e govern
lions and give profit to the bankers
who sell them to the public; but by the
issuance of thirty millions in currency
whose security will be the whole Shoals
plant endorsed by the government. The
currency to be put in circulation by
paying with these bills the material
and labor, and to be redeemed by the
products of the plant when in opera
tion.
This plan is endorsed by Thomas Ed
ison adn the plan and the endorsement
is now being circulated in the press. Of
course, the press owned or controlled
by the bankers will not print these
facts and will keep them from being
known to its readers. The Bankers'
Lobby will use ail the strong influence
they have upon Congress to defeat this
proposal as it would threaten their
profits, etc. But it is not a new idea
at all. On the Island of Guernsey, in
the English Channel the town of Guern
nsey needed a public market building,
and the citizens appealed to the gov
ernor. The governor asked them if
they had the stone, lime, wood, etc.,
and they replied that they had all the
materials and the labor power. The
Governor then told them that that dif
ment of the Island and use them to pay
for material and labor, and when the
market is built, we will receive the bills
in payment for the rent of the stalls
and the rent of the rooms and the hall
on the second floor, and when it has
all been redeemed, we can destroy the
bills and you will own a market that
has cost you nothing but the brinter's
bill and the clerical work."
The market was built, and when the
rents and income had redeemed the
bills, the Governor in his official robes
called the people together and the bills
were brought in boxes and dumped up
on a fire and burned; and he delivered
the Market Building to their Mayor
and in his speech of delivery he told
them: "Your market has not cost you
anything as all the bills have been re
«»y»""» is «11 me diiis nave Been re
tWd and there been no interest
charges paid to anyone."
Henr y Ford * s idea - endorsed by Mr.
Edison, is not a new idea, and anyone
who will visit the city of Guernsey will
see the strong, substantial market as
it stands as a monument to the good
common sense of the Governor and the
citizens of Guernsey Island.
FIELD WORKERS WANTED
FOR THE UNIVERSAL
CO-OPERATIVE BROTHERHOOD
Men and women who can organize
are wanted to help build the Univer
sal Co-operative Brotherhood. 0 good
living can be made by those who will
apply themselves and who have the
energy to wtay with the work.—'Ernest
,S. Wooster, 1941 Berkley Way, Berke
ley, Calif.
VIOLENCE IS ARGUMENT
OF THE DISHONEST
(By The Federated Press)
Ann Arbor.—The students' advisory
commitee of the University of Michi
gan senate is investigating the assault
on the college campus several nights
ago on G. D. Eaton, junior in the lit
Cr u? de P a !' tment ' who wrote an article
r 1'« i ''î Smart Set Magazine
1 March, frankly attacking the facul
ty 'i, w tudent ^ ody an< ^ Ann Arbor
COl I P. CP 11 fp in ouriûvi 1
college life in general.
Eaton was beaten by two or three
men who jumped on him from behind
in a dark spot near University hall.
The mysterious attack followed wide
spread heated discussions over his ar
ticle, which stirred the campus as it
has not been stirred îh a long time.
MORALS OF A TOOL OF
100% PROFITEERING PATRIOTS
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — Alfred E. Lindsey,
who fleeced Ne w York women out of
about $1,000,000 and took the life sav
• r 1 - o«v
?l gs , SCVer ?l w ? mei \ according to
Mrs. Laura Marling, in 1908, was
fursuing the vocation of private detec
tive, strikebreaker, and industrial spy,
with offices at Forty-Seventh street and'
Fifth Ave, New York City. Mrs. Mar
ling told the districe attorney's office,
and ^ even at that time specialized in
preying on women.
• DL-f Sey ' W ^° was arreste d in a hotel
in Philadelphia, is in jail here on char
ges of grand larceny, unable to pro
vide $50,000 bail.
The employers and manufacturers
and other business men whom he as
sisted^ in past years to break strikes
and teach labor its place," somehow
have taken no interest in him since he
got into the toils of the law.
Subscription Rates: "The Llano
Colonist" v/eekly, fo r one year, $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign
tries, $2.50..
coun
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacturing end.
But co-operatic» *or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of all, are owned equally and controlled ^colleclively.
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
The dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highland* of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the county ses! of VîrESB Parish. It !» about !5 rsilcs
*?om the Sabine River, 100 mile* from Shreveport, and nearly 300
oàie» flea New Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
in any section of the United States. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate. „
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make its community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life a< does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
¦ to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, «ugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and olher crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evaporator house
and cured.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pure sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Belter than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modern brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed. The bricks made are of" excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the olher industries being operated for the benefit of the
community, are the following:
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant, bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
ing department ; hospital; hotel; swimming pool; theater: and at
various other seasons olher work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
tish desires in favor of collective need.
Jl, ' =» C3>*35WJ«5*. ^»ey îsene*« m
rnmn |Y ' !¦ ® nd Persistent training to eliminate the
competitive spirit which has been drilled into them from youth.
class m -IV i T r'l C0 "T ra,0rS in!o ,wo 8 enera l classes: One
pie elv ni Y 1 I • c V Pera,e wi,h their fell ™s com
pletely The other class desires to live near a co -operative commun
these^thin^T 1 ~ lr own land - etc - desiring private ownership in
The Cofonv may buy land near ,he Colo "y at $15 per acre,
to come S the c7 ' T"" '° "T"' bo,h " who wish
in another ni T d ° 0n lhe ,erms of membership given
»V Cooot^F ' PaSC -- n,0Se Wh ° wish to land may
advantages of the cT' par '^P a,m 8 to an «'ent i„ the co-operative
,Ch " p, ^- a '
—36 ÂKî
s» ïTcrts: smsr id - "
Alt trams s.op here. You may not be able to purchase a tick*
It you are interested, send for more information and ask such Quê
tions „ y ou wish. Send stamp, for reply We wil l I
tri* ir want vd " to " 9k ^
lie ciear to you, merature lent free on request.
Llano Co-operative Colony
leesville, la.
—Advertisement
Seven
THE LLANO COLONIST—
n
THE
w
m
m
v
SN
LLANO125 CLUB
And Hahlen "The Day
1 OC nnn n^llavc completely finance this colony. It will give us complete
1 LJ^UUU L/Ullalb ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with
which to build our modern city. It will give steady employment to several thousand persons and
lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will permit us to admit people who
are good co-operators and are willing to give their labor and moral support to our undertaking»
but have not the money with which to buy a membership.
Wlc* W an f 1 OC persons to pledge themselves to furnish 1000 dollars each THIS
YEAR. This will enable us to do in One Year what it would take
several years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with your help we
can do it much sooner.
FurtHprmOyp yOU wi ^ SOme ^ ay want t0 ma ^ e ^UR HOME at LLANO, and when
til LI ICI II IUI Cj y OU come here you will want comfortable quarters with all modern con
veniences. You will desire beautiful streets and parks,, and all the things that go to make an ideal
residence city. We will have all these things and more, but money and lots of labor are required
to get them. YOU furnish the cash and WE will do the work.
Qmrpvol Pnmva/löC have already joined the Club, pledging themselves to pay their
JCVCi ai ^^IIHdUC5 membership fees THIS YEAR. Others will do so in the near
future. Will you be one of them? Here is an opportunity to render material support in bringing
about the Co-operative Commonwealth, and at the same time prepare a home for your family amid
ideal surroundings. This is your opportunity to put the theories of co-operation to the test.
Are you ready to make your contribution to this wonderful movement?
Do not delay; write today
Tell us that you are with us.
THE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
NEWLLANO, via Leesville, La.
S
w
w
Capitalism Disintegrating
By George D. Coleman
The above term is being used much
of late. What does it mean? March
1st issue of Soviet Russia has a second
installment of Leon Trotsky's "Chang
ed World Conditions." which tells of
the conditions in Europe, and the next
installment is to speak of the U. S.
Virtually his term means the same—
that Capitalism if disintegrating.
A system that has evolved out of
Feudalism and has gradually grown
into its present form, and of later years
taken on a rapid maturity in the
growth of corporation power and the
evolution of big combines and monop
olies that now control governments and
is entrenched in great financial power
cannot be epected to fall suddenly
without a desperate fight for its life,
except indeed it be by the revolution
ary method it has taken on in Russia,
or by openly confessed bankruptcy by
the road of repudiation, which will
force revolution upon a starving and
economically prostrated world. We
have long had the maxim, "Large bod-j
ies move slowly," but astronomy shows
us they can and do move rapidly..
As long as the inflated credits and
enormous issues of paper money can.
be sustained, the present system will
continue to exist even with the present
disrupted state of international trade
purchasing power of their labor and
home; but there is one ominous fact
that cannot be ignored or successfully
denied and that is, that the markets of
the sale of the surplus products have
for the last 40 to 50 years been clos
ing to. international trade by the hith
erto industrially undeveloped states
developing their own industries and
consuming* their own raw materials;
and hence they cease to export thè
former volume or any great surplus
of raw materials. A study of import
and export statistics w iH show that
their import totals have been kept up
L . r -¦ , v -
purchasing power of their labor and
curtails home consumption and more
closing down follows and increasing j
unemployment. You cannot make a j
blanket longer by cutting off a piece.
at the top and sewing it on the bottom. :
And on the top of all this has come a
devastating world war that has sad
died the nations with war debts whose
interest has been defaulted or prac
tically forced REPUDIATION. And
further yet, to "carry on" there has
by the importing of machinery to de
velop their own industries. As a na
tion ceases to find purchasers for its
manufactured surplus, the industries
that produce that surplus must lan
guish and close down or in order to de
crease the price in the competition on
a closing market there is an organized
campaign to reduce wages to lower
levels. This naturally decreases the
been issued billions of paper money
that is depreciated in International Ex
change until international tr#de has
been made difficult and impractical, or
if carried on, means ultimate loss.. If
this is not disintegration, please give
it a name.
In all of the history of the world ne
ver has/there been such a wholesale
inflation of credits, debts, and indebt
edness. The great "Mississippi Bub
ble" that collapsed and produced dis
tress and financial disruption was not
at any time an approach to present
conditions. These debts can nevèr be
paid, it is physically impossible. In
fact the repudiation of even the inter- j
est on these war debts is practical Re
pudiation of Capital and Interest. The
proposal to "cancel" these debts, born
of the necessity shows plainly that it
is recognized and admitted that they,
can never be paid. Some of the na
tions have debts that exceed their na
tional wealth.
C\n tko r p .
9" ™ e ^, of the f War .
S o « i t W3S L TK \
billions of gold marks. The present
trLrrt W ?l th ' ,«! S S e ïl! e
tact that she has not suffered the
wholesale destruction of her industries
i*j r> 1 • i i
as did beigium and northern r ranee,
is estimated at 100 billion gold marks,
while her indebtedness has risen to
250 billion gold marks, and in addition
to all this, she is called upon to pay
,i™.lT»l°h o^Germany'tlown to
it. this is not hopeless bankruptcy
please give it a name.
Austria as a state is only a name
and practically no longer exists. The
war debts of Italy alone are three
fourths of her national wealth,, not to
mention her municipal, corporation,
and commercial debts which, all told,
would place her in a class with Ger
many. France, England, and all the
Allied governments are facing open
kruptcy; yet they are still expend
ing more than their income on mili
tary aggressions and preparations. Po
land, though backed by France and
England in her aggressions against So
viet Russia, is hopelessly in debt.. The
U. S. government supplied Poland with
uniforms, arms, and all manner of war
material, and as a blind, took Poiish
.'V.
bonds in a supposed payment that are
are only waste paper, as they never
can be paid and would not sell on Wall
Street at 10 cents on the dollar. Even
the U. S. and Japan, who came out
of the war in better shape than any of
the Allies, are in a fictitious state of
so-called prosperity, but really in a de
plorable condition. We are told that
the U. S. — and that with great toot
ing of horns — has about three-fourths
of the world's gold supply; yet gold
coins do not circulate, but are congest
ed in the vaults of the U. S. Treasury
and in the treasuries of the big banks.
In the present condition of the world
markets and their prospective condition
what is gold worth of itself? It can
not be used as food, drink, or shelter,
and the U. S. is like a man on a desert
with a bag of gold that will buy neither
f 0<x j nor water , Gold of itself, ex
1 cept f or j ts repu ted value, is really
wort h less than iron or steel,
) Briefly the world faces bankruptcy,
an d REPUDIATION. How long can
.Jt be held off? What will result when
jit comes? In my opinion it means re
now in the U. S. Treasury vaults and
AVA Anlif A A A I- k AI» nnirâv
' volution. Will the producers continue
t0 follow the lead of their exploiters,
or will they follow in the steps of Rus
s i a an d out of the hurly-burly organ
jze a new system, where a government
0 f the workers, for the workers, and
by the workers, will rise from the col
lapse and ruin of capitalism? As the
Spanish proverb says, "Veremos Io que
veremos," or "We will see what we
will see."
REGULAR ARMY IN
DEPLORABLE CONDITION
ft, 1W Federated P.e..,
Camp Dix, N. Y. - Major Malcolm
(Wheeler Nickolson, who recently made
c » a n5 e L s that the army is rim by a clique
of high officers, that it is being Prus-1
«amzed, and that army condemns gen
eraHy are deplorable. >s to be
plined if the d'sciplining can be done
without attracting too much attention
and without, giving him an opportunity
of substantiating his charges. Major
Wheeler-Nicholson having made pub
lie a copy of a !et er he wrote to Pres
»dent Harding containing these charges
»aid he expected to be dismissed for .
> act,on_ .
Major Wheeler-Nicholson s pamphlet
entitled The Regular Army—Re
form It or Abolish It." It declares the
* rm y is inefficient, that it failed to
function efficiently in the war, and that
the evils which he charges are the fault
pf the higher officers. "Ihe system,"
asserts, "is a combination of promo
tion by seniority and assignment to du
_ty by the hazards of pejr«onal acquain
tanceship."
FARMERS AND LABORERS
UNITE IN PENNSYLVANIA
(By The Federated Press)
Newcastle, Pa. — Thirty labor or
ganizations and several farmer groups
have combined to form a farmer-labor
council in the Sixty-first Congression
al district in Pennsylvania in order to
nominate and elect men who will repre
sent their interests. This district em
braces Beaver, Butler and Lawrence
counties, which contain more than 10,
a large
jOOO organized workers and
number of farmers.
WORKERS BEWARE OF
"OPEN SHOP" LURE
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago. — Luring building trades
workers to Chicago by false statements
concerning strikes and lockouts is the
charge made against the so-called Cit-'
izens ' Committee to Enforce the Lan
^ Award ^ ^ bui ] dinR trades The
^arge^ "w^'m^de^before 6 ÄldT Thomas
g chairman citv council oemmit
f ' ,, f council oemmit
tee. receintlv annninte.n tn investieret#*
;^ r
1 " d . b ™ »'»'f «'
Committee, admitted that' men !
tee, recently appointed to investigate
the building situation in Chicago and
in particular the activities of the Cit
izens' Committee. Workers from oth
er towns who had been attracted by
the advertisements of the Citizens Com
had come in and were now without !
jobs, but said that the men knew in
advance that they would be expected
to work on nonunion jobs under police
protection.
LOYAL TO LABOR CONSTRUED
AS TREASON TO PLUTES
The Federated Press)
Terre Haute, Ind. —Eugene V. Debs
urges general amnesty for political pris
oijeri in the United Staies in an ap
• , , „ .
organized workers. :
peal addressed "to all labor unions and |
rgamzed workers .
1 he simple fact is that the treason
tor which these men were convicted J
was their loyalty to the working class."'some
REAL MANHOOD WILL
AID RUSSIAN REPUBLIC
(By The Federated Pre«)
New York.
from all parts
— About 150 farmers,
of the United States and
from the wheat fields of British Colum
j hia—some of whom also are black
smit
smiths, carpenters, and mechanics-—»
are sailing on the steamship Esthonia
for Libau, whence they will proceed
to Russia to receive from the Russian
government grants of land on which
they plan to establish a model farm
ing community. They are accompanied
by a physician and a teacher.
The group was gathered and is be
ing sent by the Society of Technical
Aid for Soviet Russia, and is taking
with it $15,000 worth of farm imple
ments. Some are taking their wives.
Each one is paying his own expenses,
and has sufficient surplus to support
himself until they shall have produced
a crop.
Robert Wuschke, who came to Am
erica from Russia 18' years ago, and
has been a farmer on Long Island and
in Connecticut, said:
"Most of us are Russians, and we
believe in the future of Russia. We
are all good farmers, and we expect to
raise the standard of farming and in
struct others. We will raise crops, ex
pecting the government to take all
'above our own needs. We do not get
title to the land, but we v expect to be
allowed to retain the land allotted to
us as long as we faithfully work it. We
are going to show some of the peasants
what American farming methods can
produce."
NEW YORK CO-OPERATIVES
SCORE SATISFACTORY SUCCESS
The Federated Press)
m v , n - .
New York. - Co-operative associa
tion» in New York state m 1921, ex
'-ÂSÏÂ
bu.ine.., according lo Loui. Bl.chly,
director, co-operative division, state de
partment of farms and markets.
Such failures as were reported dur
ing the year he declared, were most
disct-Iyamong the smaller organizations
.which were poorly managed or which
succumbed to the chain store competi
t,on Co-operative grocery stores fur
rushed the largest number of unsuccess
ful ventures. 1 he larger and stronger
associations grew larger and stronger
bo h in business and membership, and
at least two of theiri which paid no div
ijdends in 1920 made 6 percent returns
to their members last year.
THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page 1)
-
|" ne the most beautiful locations we
ve on the ranch and some day we
exp f ct 8 reat , things to come from the
poultr y y ar f s -, h 18 , our f intention to
raise several thousands of laying hens
into lumber, shingles, and fuel. De
Boer is busy hauling fertilizer; Mer
rel is hauling wood; and Smock is
teaming out at the dairy.. Another
small house is being framed to-day and
it begins to look like the growth of.
a mushroom city.. Nash, and Van Nu
land have almost completed the house
that the Rooneys are to occupy at the
poultry ranch and it is a dandy house..
This makes two nice cozy bungalows
at this location set up on a hill where
they can be seen from a long distance,
and nestling in among some beautiful
large oak trees. A nice spring of good
water bubbles out from the ground
close to the houses, and furnishes a
supply of good water for every use.
Comrade Linn and wife occupy the
other house. They have also built a
nice large garage, horse stable and
cow barn. They have dug a pit for
the purpose of building their incubator
cellar just north of their residences;
the old chicken house and brooder
houses have been white-washed and
rearranged and some new stock chick
ens are now on the ground. This
at this pl f ace - £nd let me tell you this
ls one ^ lnest poultry countries
j ^ believe
. ever been.. 1 aon l Deiieve it
S±*TM,"Td m !' uï
Ma . icolm have take " U P »his work to
,
can be surpassed m any country. A
j c . ,' , s °' tr f es ' an ° g re en
* eed , the wh ° le ,y ear thru - P iünt V
wat ? r ' [ ee f f° raise - °y ste , r
?. j t0 £ be ? ad at httle c , ost a " d aI!
kinds ot poultry seem to do well. In
make a success of it and they are
c -
starting from the bottom and are work
ing up tpwards the top, which is our
method of starting all our industries;
and with the usual Colony spirt, sue-J
cess is bound to crown their efforts,
I o-night the algebra class was held
as usual after which the agriculturalists
talked cane and later a crowd walk
ed out to warm up the new house al
the poultry ranch and at the same time
to tie a new knot ,n the Synoground
matrimonial string. This makes four
teen knots for Ole and w ife to untie and
. a ' ask »hat
these two are going to just leave the
it looks like such a large task that
these two are going to just leave the
string tangled and tied as it is and
we will look forward to tieing them up
more i^years to come.
Saturday, Mch. 11.
This is al
I , j , «„j « no
, wa y s a ^ busy day> and this "
! exception. The clearing crew are m
j town with big smiles on their faces,
1 te |jj ng ta i es 0 f their completing the
• t pulling on the land west of the
stump pulling
Ford ranch. To-day they are out dig
ging holes for setting the new trees in
the orchard ground. Comrades Cox
and Nash are doing the tree setting
and when the job is completed we will
have a fair assortment of fruit to prove
to some of our neighbors that this is
a real fruit country People down in
this part of the U. S. have always been
in the lumber business and now it is
no more; but they will soon have to
turn to agriculture and when they do,
they are going to realize the wonder
ful natural advantages they have at
hand. The gardeners are doing all they
can to. produce fresh vegetables and
strawberries to supply those who are
here now and the many new people
who will come to join us this year.
Cabbage, lettuce, several kinds of
greens, turnips, beets, carrots, onions,
radishes and rutabagas are being used
and have been growing all winter. The
strawberries are in bloom and several
of our school boys went with Comrade
Msssinger to pull the blossoms and
small berries off the new berry plants
to permit a larger plant growth. Dan
iel, Waters, Phillips and F. Anderson
are still out at the new farm clearing
and Siemens and Kapotsy are working
there with the tractors. Krug, Merrill,
Jones, Marchick and Tackett are tem
porarily changed to the orchard work
but will soon be back on the clearing
job. Babb and the children have al
most finished laying their two tines of
tiling at the garden and school gardens
will soon begin to occupy all spare time
for the children. Rose Belohradsky is
I now working at the printing shop and
Ig, assist j# reliev| the , abor short ,.
there Rose used to work at the
! jf
j b|( , t who ^ vUi[jng u! is mnch pleas .
| e(J with the Co j and expe cts to ar- ,
ran a e his affairs so as to come to join
us and do hjs t to ; 0 „ the '
d work Rix V on Scio and Dick
|inson haye finished another wagon {oi
, hau| ; and when the roads d up
J wi „ J doubt at t tQ moye the
from Woco C:çek t0 the
mi „ We „ when we t the new
, ant t0 runn ; a „ our , wa _
wi „ be k busy as we wi „ turn
out , umber for house8i furmture , and
general manu f actuii ng purposes. Com.
{§* Js now p l anning a new wagon that
is learning a new trade; he is practic
ing the painter's art and has almost
painted the town red. He began on
the farm machinery and has about
completed that job.. Lindsey must take
the job away from him or he may
spoil his own "rep" later. Howard
Buck is back on the job and you
should get a full "Colonist" this week,
.The American Co-operator is now
ready for the mail and we want you
to all do your best to help the sub.
list for our publications to grow. It
will mean greater numbers interested
j n our movement. The Self-Govern
m en t League met as usual this
_
he believes will be the most efficient
for this country of all he has ever
seen in his life; and from John's ex
perience and wagon knowledge, I be
lieve he knows. Comrade Dickinson
and all the school children were in at
p.m.
tendance. This evening the dancing i
school and dance wound up a real busy
day. i
* * * *
Sunday, Mch. 12. — Frank Gayer
of California has a real idea and asks
us to put it into operation. He is sure
.1 • 1, , i t ... ,
we are on the right track to establish
a co-operative commonwealth. He
feels sure there are thousands of peo
pie who want to assist in our work and
has suggested a way to permit them to
do it, without much outlay of cash,
Comrade Gayer realizes that while we
are working to clear land and put it to
producing; making lumber and brick
for many useful purposes; and are ac
tually engaged in putting up buildings,
making furniture, shoes, and other ne
cessary and useful things for future use
and comfort, it is almost impossible
for us to produce for profit in order
to support ourselves and pay daily ex
penses of carrying our people from
month to month. Don't get ,the idea
that we are not self-supporting; be
cause we are and more, too; but don't
you see we have a city to build and
a big acreage of land to clear and put
into productive use. We have raised
the assets of this Colony from less than
[nothing to a quarter of a million dol
,lars in wealth in two years of real co
operation. Yes, we are more than
self-supporting; but we are called up
on to prepare a home for your home
coming; get land to producing for you
and others; buy tools and machinery
for your use upon your arrival. A BIG !
JOB! One that capitalism has com- I
pletely fallen down on, anl one that
capitalism will never be able to cope
with. We
and under our system Iherewouirnev-1
er be forced unemployment. Now ar e
and under our System ^he^ewoddnt!- i
er be' forced unemployment. Now are
you ready to support such a move
ment that can do the BIG JOB and a '
move
group of people who are doing it?
¦,
Comrade Gayer says you will. Now,
here is the proposition. Each of you
p l e dge to give or donate $1,00 or more
£ # fund ca , le( j the "DOLLAR-UP
QJJB" to be used in defraying the
expenses of our up-keep and advance
ment of general Colony affairs.
there is a surplus we can use it to buy
more timber, land, or machines, for
future use or whatever purposes we
feel is to the best interest of the cause.
Each month we will publish the names
of those who donate and the amount
paid by them. If this proposition is as
well supported as its founder thinks it
will be, an income should be pouring
into our hands that will relieve us from
all small cares and permit us to direct
all our attention to building our insti
tution and others like it. Who is there
to say that this movement is not pre
paring a world civilization for the fu
ture? The ideal is right and nothing
can be had unless we direct our atten
tion to its consummation. Is our ideal 1
your ideal? If so, are you willing to
give to this fund each month one or
more dollars to help us work with more
rapidity, that our demonstration may
be brought to the notive of the world
in time to bring about a peaceful so
lution of the great world problem?
What would you give to bring peace on
earth, good will to all mankind? We
are building such a civilization here
and it is for you and all people who
wili accept it. Now is the right time,
for a heroic effort for quick results. '
Are you with us to the finish? If so, j
join this fund and support your cause,
Can anyone who thinks at all see the
unemployed millions, the dispossessed
farmers, and other workers; the busi-!
ness failure all around, and think he 1
can escape without causing a greater !
suffering upon his brothers? We, the
workers, can stop it and we are offer
ing you a practical solution through
co-operation. Join the "Dollar -Up
Club"—and do your best.
v * * ¥
Monday, Mch. 13. — A red letter
day for the Colony. A car load of ma
, c h»nery was placéd on our siding, the
'result of visits from Comrades from
' the southem part of the State tQ tlw
polony. A big 40-80 horse power Cat
iHar> a thresh ; machine , se! f_
binder> plows , d j scs> and drag
harrows , wagons> cu l tivators> and sev .
era , other useful farm imp l em ents were
i oaded on this car; and to it off
Comrade Gualt with an emi t car
was als0 set off t0 be unloaded at our
village. Four nice cows, two heifer
calves, pigs, chickens, ducks, fruit
trees, berry plants, tools, and house
....
hold goods were in this car. Comrades
Sanders and West with Clifford West
arrived last night with a big five-ton
truck and a big traction engine, which
they drove through from Jennings.
Yes, and there is more to come from
down that way, too. Comrade Wain
wright sent us some fruit trees. A
regular exodus is expected from the
South to Newllano. This new machin
ery and the new colonists that came
with it to live rffhong us, will add great
ly to Colony affairs. Dan Cryer one
of our neighbors has decided he can't
stand competition any longer, and is
also moving to the Colony. Waters
and Scharrer drove down to the Cryer
place to-day and brot home corn, pea
nut hay and other useful things that
Dan is turning in. Also some cows,
hogs, etc. are coming from this deal,
,too. Work on the roof garden is now
i showing up in great shape. The heavy
timbers are all in place and more than
i half of the brick work is done'. Downs,
Beavers, and Reeves are doing the
brick work while Comrades Langridge
p r * anc ^ J r * anc ^ Rechsteiner, Lee, Wil
lla ? Sare d °'" g , the car P e j^ r work Ole
and Jaques, Vernon and Loutrell are
sawing [ umber whi , e Matz and Roede
are working on the second small house,
Rush work will have to be done on
small houses in order to hold the new^
additions to our fast-growing popula
tion, as new people come to the Col
ony. We are still in need of several
brick masons and other special work
ers-a tanner, a shoe maker, a cloth
weaver, a dentist, and men and women j
i» rf-w.»
ideals in a practical way. The chil
dren s mental science class and the
orchestra practice wound up a very
busy day.
¥ ¥ ¥
when it is due. We are river, iC """
ilege of selecting any land wA hT
choose this year and it is a ! j°
vantage. You see we L f
finance the whole |«d l'- S - l °
program this year thru ou r " 1 25C! b"
Tuesday. Mch. 14. — Well, people,
I am sending out some leters to all
the friends whom I believe are intend
ing to come to join us this year and
if you fail to get the letter, please don
reel slighted; because our mail is not
getting thni as well as it would if we
had a P. O. of our own, and it may be
that we do not know you intend to get
in with us soon. The letter asks you
to send in your membership fee by
May^ 1st and help us to make this
year s payment of $24,000 on the land
come'V^VTs^to ?| p th ^° ney
lanrl tl ear $ ls years
com^ b j ?" 1 en ° U8h ° f A ' S
land payir
000 acres mo». m I ti T "
and the other . • '
land payment. The ownership of 9
UUU acres ' - •
put this ColonvTn'tl^ "° W ° W " wil1
" on ine map in a finan
Australian Giant Beans
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared In the same way as egg-plant
Much resembles the latter—except
that by many colonist* it is
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
r.aUjjirg 'ss.cb packet of seeds.
The colonist who introduced Ans
,/alian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $|
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
I
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
«al way that will open the eyes of those
who ^°[ 11 . understand co-operation,
We w '" he ln . a P osl , tlon to permit oyi
ers t0 <j ome m and go to work who
arie unable to pay a full membership.
hut are willing to devote the rest of
their lives to making a new system for
human existence. When this- colony is
financed we will be in a condition to
ac ^ m '' several thousands of workers to
°ur community and put all the land to
producing; and from our production
here, we can back other new colonies,
We have 1000 acres on the Isle of
Pines for this purpose and want to get
it to furnishing tropical fruits for co
operative consumption as soon as we
can get to it. With our wealth put to
gether we are in a much better shape
to prove our theories than we will be
by having to produce and sell for the
purpose of gaining money for future
development, while your spare cash
lies in a capitalistic investment. Now
is the time to help. If you can send
us only $10.00 on a membership pay
ment by May 1, say so and send it. If
your purse will allow you to send $100,
fire it in. A $1000 will be better, and
$10,000 still better.. You see we make
no limit! We want to do our job on
schedule time, and you must help us
do it. Now, how much can we de
pend upon from you to help raise the
$24,000 by May 1st? Write and let
us know. This is your home and you
can help build it by supporting us in
our work. A man has just left this
office after turning in at least $25,000
worth of property to the Colony. But
to pay our land contract we must have
cash and for us to raise the cash we
would have to stop all Colony pro
gress and turn our industries into pro
fit producing and compete in the mar
ket for business. It is not possible for
us to do this, and at the same time
build buildings, clear land, make shoes
and general progress which many of
you want us to do. How much of the
$24,000 will you send in by the first
of May? The time is short but we
pulled a larger deal last year on less
time and under less favorable condi
tions. Remember any amount will be
a help and we want your answer now.
Comrades JWest, Mrs. Gault, Mrs.
Sanders, and Gertrude West are the
new arrivals. All the new arrivals are
here to stay except Comrade West and
his son, W. H., who returned home
this p.m. A first-class addition to our
community has come and more to fol
low. The card club was mobbed and
broken up to-night by the school kidd
ies and sohle older kids (of all ages)
who formed a surprise on Comradé
Martin, took the house; and an amal
gamation of card club, dances, and
\° nera ' time mixed the pickles for
the whole evening. Comrade Martin's
birthday cake had 16 candles on it!
borne kid! Good things to eat and
lemonade helped to fill ™ f"
and cloTed a most n l ° f J ° y
-wrÄÄ
and all to be held at New
surprises
llano.
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLAHR, Nature Cure
Author, says:
Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
and question from the Henry George
viewpoint, I felt that there was some
thing wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the , itt , e (hings oyer
which we stumble every day that we
on t see. \ ou are the first one who
as harmonized the land jproblem and
Ma r W " Se ^ Uest ' 0n —Henry George and
A concise, clothbound volume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
tency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, La.
TRIAL SUBSCRIPTION!:
FOR YOUR FRIENDS
Send us a list tff your friends who
you believe are interested in co-opera
tjon and 10c for each name, and we
will send the Llano Colonist for four
weeks to each.
• O
A WEEKLY MESSENGER FROM THE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
The
' , s -,'' JfT"
To expound the principle« t
co-operation that other
be formed to emulate the
Llano Co-operative Colony.
MEMBER THE FEDERATED PRESS
fôîonics
Cv/lUUlw
No, 45
Vol. 1.
PUBLISHED AT LLANO COLONY, LEES VILLE LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, MARCH 25. 1922.
The Colony Diary
Being a Daily Report of Colony Life at Llano.
Wednesday. — This whole da'y has
passed and I haven't had time to read
the mail. Now, that is only a colony
condition at every point. Spring time
is here, lots of work, more work than
we can possibly do in a day, and it
will always be so as long as we con
tinue to buijd co-operation with an
intention of converting others to our
belief. Gault, Kling and Sanders are
unloading the caterpiller, thresher, bin
der and other farm tools; it is some
job handling 39,000 lbs of machinery
on one car. Jaques is making shingles,
while Vernon, Loutrell, Matz, Roede
and Ole are building another smal
house for the Guilt family. Landrum
is now firing the big boiler while Gal
Jo is laid up with a sore hand. H. C.
Sutton came back to the Colony to
spend a vacation. Comrade Sutton
paid for a room at the hotel and is en
titled to stay with us as a visitor, with
no cost to himself until his deposit ii
ent]rely boarded out. He will get val
ve received for his money and we wili
¦enjoy his company at thf same time.
He is an excellent flute player and is
quite an addition to our orchestra.
Comrade Aaby has a steady job making
sweet-potato crates at the crate factory,
Benton, Waters and Babb assisted by
-some of the children, are still tiling at
the old garden patch. They, use brick
for tiling purposes ànd are doing a j
good job. Comrade Shutt it the fire
man at the laundry and printery boiler
and Mr. and Mrs. Beavers, Mrs. Cox,
Mrs. Kemp, Mrs. Hamilton and Mrs.
Connors are having a busy time keep
ing us all fitted out with clean and
well-mended clothes. Our laundry is
a source of comfort to us all and is
doing excellent work. As soon as we
get some more brick masons, we intend
to build a new up-to-date laundry, with
a modern equipment that will make
the work easy and add to the comfort
of the workers. Our women work in
the laundry as a Colony service and it
is just as important as any work that
is done any place. In fact, I don't
know of anything more necessary foi*
our good, unless it is the preparation
of our food. The greater the service
one renders, under co-operation, the
more power it gives to those rendering
it. And we must take our hats off to
thé workers at the laundry for good
service rendered. Rose Belohradsky
is helping at the stenog. office this p*
m. The Democrat is off press and
ready for the mail and to-morrow it
will be the Colonist to thé press. Mrs.
Cantréll, ^Rose, Comrades Buck,*Glee
ser and Newman, assisted by C. Shutt,
Maxine and Victor Gaddis, Albert Ka
potsy and Arthur Montrose (schoof
children), are doing all in (heir power
to keep your colony papers going to
you, besides doing lots of outside print
ing. By the way, don't forget we can
do your printing as well as anybody
else. And we are co-operators. Mrs.
Sanders started to work at the store
to-day and Gertrude West started to
school. Mrs. Gault was hurt in an ac
cident Monday and will -not be able
"to start work for several days. It cer
tainly looks good to us to see new
members, women as well as men, jump
into the harness and show that their
greatest aim in life is to make thoir
ideal a practical demonstration for oth
ers to pattern after. The mandolin
club, band and orchestra practiced
early this evening and at 8 o'clock the
Colony people gathered at the hotel to
hear Mr. Abbott, Miss Le Fevre, and
Miss Gleason, all of the University Ex
tension, tell us of their work. They
too, believe in co-operation, and they
bave agreed to come back some day
and learn what we are doing.
* * * *
Thursday, March 16. — The big ca
terpillar got obstreperous yesterday and
backed into a deep ditch ; quite a num
ber of fellows are at work getting the
old girl back on good ground. Ohjoy !
Two more new members to the 125
Club"! H. C. Hall and W. G. Dene
gan have sent in their names and ex
pect to be here by Sept 1st. Now, who
is next? One comrade asks: "After
the '125-Club' is filled and paid up,
then what?" Well, I can't say exact
ly what, but I have a good guess and
suggestion. Thousands of people, want
to join us who have not enough mon
ey to pay a full membership fee. As
soon as this project here is complete
ly financed, I am sure we shall then
admit those who are paying on the in
stallment plan and can come and help
us put the whole 20,000 acres into use.
Then we will start other colonies and
back them up from the mother colony
here at Newllano. The only reason we
charge a membership fee at all is in
order to buy land and equipment for
rapid progress; furnish all colonists
with modern homes as soon as possible
and get the best out of life-as soon as
we-can.' We are self supporting now,
but future progress drains our efforts
to tfie limit. We keep our capital bu*
sy at all times and it is for the benefi'
of those who wish to come later. Did
you join the "Dollar-Up Club" or the
"125-Club"? If not, why not? It is
to your interest as well" as to the in
terest of all the workers of the world.
The pioneer conditions don't bother us
but we kno w many of you hesitate to
come here and live in the houses we
are now living in. We know it will
take great numbers of people—and the
right kind—to make this demonstra
tion what it should be. Also we know
most people will judge from outside
display. We refuse to grand-stand or
show off; so you can see why we are
anxious to get some buildings and
homes built to prove what we are do
ing. Paying our old debts and gain
ing ownership of the property makes
no showing to those outside; but we
know what it means, and we are now
ready to show those who are from
Missouri. What is your IDZAL, com
rades? Is it to do for yourself and
your immediate family? Often we find
people who plead for the human race
arid talk big things in a sentimental
way—but when the test comes, their
own welfare or that of some of their
family is dearer to them than their
ideal. Or, in other words, selfishness
still rules them. Let me repeat again:
"Unless you can eliminate selfishness,
jealousy and suspicion, you are not yet
ready for complete co-operation."
Needless to say, many are not ready
and it is our duty to point the way.
This is the BIG THING at the Colony;
oijr daily life is made up of service and
we are very happy in the rendering of
that service. Not for self, but for all
must be our slogan. The psychologi
cal meeting was one of our best yet?
and we who have been here longest
realize its good to the community in
the last two years. We learn not to
look for the faults in each other, but
for the virtues. We seek to find the
places where we can co-operate with
each other on essential points and for
get the petty nonessential points that
make for differences and opportuni
ties to argue or quarrel. A nice box
of rhubarb roots arrived to-day from
Scott Harris, and we were much pleas
ed to get them.
¥ # * *
Friday, March 17. — The "lady re
porter" has sneaked away from her
usual job while the bosses are real
busy and taken an hour's stroll around
the industrial plant to see just what
she could see and in order to let you
know what a visitor might see in so
short a time and just "who is where"
to-day. I'll tell you whom I saw and
where. Of course, Burton, Mrs. Dou
gherty, Mrs. Norgard, and Gertrude
West are at the office. I had to dodge
them, or they would put me back to
work. 1 didn't see them, but I knew
they were there and I was also sure
I heard Mother Blair in Burton's of
fice, where she has been doing some
Colony hustling on her own hook for
several days. Well,! I said I would
tell what I saw, so here goes: Pass
ing thru the store I saw Gaddis work
ing at his book-keeping and Mrs. Gad
dis and Mrs. Sanders waiting on cus
tomers and straightening stock on the
shelves of the store. Daddy Bell was
propped up in bed patiently or impa
tiently reading a book (You see, Dad
is still laid up with a bad foot). Kunz
was in the bakeshop keeping fire and
other things going while Joe is in Lees
ville delivering bread and pastry to our
friends up there. Over at the shoe
shop I found Geo. Cox making some
ladies' shoes on a last 'that was also
Colony-made (by Wobler). Realizing
I was not out of the possible vision of
my bosses, I hurried towards the me
chanical building—like I had been sent
for—and succeeding in getting there
unnoticed. Here Rix was making a
(Continued on last page)
THE TRUTH NEVER DIES
Truth never dies., The ages come and go.
The mountains v# ar away, the seas retire ;
Destruction lays earth's mighty cities low.
And empires, states and dynasties expire;
But, caught and handed onward by the wise,
Truth never diei.
Though unreceived ; and scoffed at through
the years, f
Though made a butt of ridicule and jest,
Though held aloft for mockery and jeers,
Denied by those of transient power
possessed, ,
Insulted by the indolence of lies—
Truth never dies.
It answers not, it does not take offense;
But with a mighty silence bides its time.
As some great cliff that braves the elements
And lifts through the storms_i!â.bead
sublime,
Till beams the sun resplendent from the skies
—Truth never dies.
As rests the Sphinx amid Egyptian sands,
As looms on high the snowy peak and
crest,
As firm and patient as Gibralter stands.
So truth, unwearied, waits the era blest.
When men shall turn to it with great
surprise—
Truth never dies.
LLANO BUILDERS ARE ?
COMING ALONG FAST
Very often the readers of the Llano
Colonist wonder how it is possible for
them to in some small way help to
build the Colony. They read of the
work which the colonists are doing and
long to be able to do some small or
large bit to assist to construct the great
eminence which is rising upon the
foundation of co-operative effort.
One comrade in California conceiv
ed that a club among fellows like him
who have no large sums of money, but
who are working regularly, should be
started to help the cause. These fel
lows promise to subscribe a dollar or
more a month. This has been named
the "DOLLAR-UP CLUB" and each
member will promise to donate as sum
each month, to be used for the upbuild
ing the co-operative commonwealth.
THE "DOLLAR-UP CI.|B"
Members of the "Dollar-Up
Club" for the month of March
are:
Frank Gayer $1.00
Rose B. Blair 1.00
L. L. Rhodes 1.00
It is estimated that $125,000 will
complete the buying of the Llano
Plantation of 20,000 acres, and pro
vide enough money to build Llano's big
hotel dormitory. To Droduce enough
in the Colony and sell it in the market
would require years to create this fund
and supply the needs of the colonists
in additioiu Every dollar's worth of
material sold to the outside detracts
both labor and time from the upbuild
ing of the future commonwealth. So
several comrades have promised to join
the Colony THIS YEAR and thus
pledge their entrance fees to the fund
for the completing of the $125,000
program. This is called the "125
Club." The following have already
signified their pledge:
THE "125-CLUB'
Tom L. Potts
A. B. Dawley
W. G. Dunegan
Harry C. Hall
D. W. Van Schoich
John Winters
J. B. Mars
Robert Wurfer
Comrades, watch these lists steadily
grow. Decide that you.too, want to
help to rush the building of the co
operative commonwealth. Decide to
join one or the other of these two
clubs, then get in and boost for Llano.
COLONY RECEPTION IS
PLEASANT TIME
All the gay and joyous spirits of the
Colony were on hand in full regalia on
Monday evening, at the reception held
to honor Comrade Mrs. Rose B. Blair,
who -expects to leave for her home in
Washington very soon.
Mrs. Blair holds a warm spot in the
colonists' hearts for it was she who or
iginated the phrase "Klink of the
Brick," referring to Llano's building
program. She has been spending sev
eral weeks among the colonists and has
endeared herself to all. She goes back
home to arrange her affairs that she
may return and live at Llano.
The reception was somewhat formal
for Llano, a reception committee meet
ing the guests in approved style. After
the guests had assembled, dancing
was indulged in, interspersed with mus
ical and vocal numbers. The Llano
quartette, by special request, rendered
"Waiting for You" and encored with
"Love's Old Sweet Song" in beauti
ful harmony. Mrs. G. E. Cantrell also
by special request, sang "Genevieve,
encoring with '"Sweet and Low," both
of which were well rendered.
The dances were especially adapted
to the older folks, even "Dad" Dough
erty and "Dad" Lloyd swinging a few
sets in one of the Virginia reels, which
were repeated several times until the
fiddlers were worn out. '
A variety of foreign folk dances,
Chinese dialogues, funny stories, and
a piece of home-made verse anent the
Comrade's departure, made up the
numbers of the program.
Some card enthusiasts played their
favorite games in the corner during a
part of the evening.
Ice cream and cake were served to
a happy bunch.
During the evening a surprise event
was arranged for Comrade Burton,
whose birthday it was. Birthday cards
were showered upon him, and although
taken somewhat by surprise, he accep
ted the cards with unspeakable feel
ings.
COAL MINERS WILL STRIKE
(By The Federated Press)
Springfield, 111. — The rank and
file of the United Mine Workers of
America have voted overwhelmingly by
referendum, to strike March 31, if by
that time a satisfactory agreement is
not made between their representatives
and the coal operators.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
SETS BALL ROLLING
FOR MAY DAY ANNIVERSARY
The first shot in the 1922 May Day
Celebration was fired when arrange
ments for the distribution of the re
sponsibility for the various anniversary
festivities were made.
This is the eighth anniversary of
Llano Colony, and it will begin its
ninth year with the usual celebration.
As usual there will be an exhibition
of the work of the several industries,
of the school, and the farm, showing
the strides which have been made since
last May.
Sports, a ball game, picnic, and
dance will be on the program, more
details of which will appear later.
An effort will be made to complete
the new roof garden for the celebra
tion. I
A CONTINUOUS ROUND
OF PLEASURE
The colonists enjoyed a delightful
evening's entertainment at the Dixie
Pride Playhouse last Sunday night.
Three very intersting and instructive
films supplied by the U. S. Department
of Agriculture were shown, and a con
cert furfiished by the Juvenille Orches
tra and the Mandolin and Guitar Club
listened t6. This was the first appear
ance on the boards of the latter aggre
gation of musical talent of the colony.
If this first accomplishment is a fair
criterion of the capability of that group
our community can certainly congratu
late itself to the prospects of many fut
ure musical treats of that nature.
LLANO SCHOOL CHILDREN
HAVE OPENED CAFETERIA
The Cafeteria at the Llano School
opened for business in the childrens'
club house Monday noon, with a full
crowd of children and many grown
kids on hand.
This school serves two important
purposes. One is the training of the
children in the art of preparing food
in an appetizing and economical way,
and the other is the serving of food
for growing children which best fits
their needs.
The first day's meal consisted of
toasted whole-wheat bread, coddled
egg, rolled oats with raisins and milk,
vegetable and milk soup, peanuts with
raisins, bread, cane syrup and peanut
butter, glass of milk.
Six large tables were set aand a se
cond extra table had to be put into
service as the adults strolled in to see
the beginning of the childrens' cafe
teria.
Because each child receives its liv
ing allowance the same as its parents,
they pay their own way as they leave
the table. This teaches them that by
attending school and striving to become
good colonist«, they are earning their
own living.
Mrs. Martin and Mrs. Green, assist
ed by the high school girl«, are in
charge of the arrangements.
SPRING WEATHER BRINGS
BLOSSOMS AND FLOWERS
The country around Vernon Parish
is ablaze with blossoms and flowers as
the result of the spring weather which
arrived last week. The woods are fes
tooned with violets, pansies and a host
of small wild flowers, while the foliage
on the trees blends into every shade of
green imaginable.
The barometer indicates a continua
tion of the fair weatbçr, according to
Weatherman W. A. Dougherty, of the
U. S. Observer's Station at Newllano,
with normal temperatures and probable
rain at the end of the week.
One inch of rain fell last week. Here
are the temperatures reported foi the
week ending March 20:
Mch. 14—max. 79, min. 60
Mch. 15—max. 75, min. 48
Mch. 16—max. 73, min. 42
Mch. 17—max. 73, min. 50
Mch. 18—max. 77, min. 62
Mch. 19—max. 77, min. 58
Mch. 20—max. 67, min. 39
WANTED—For the Llano Colony
Library, a copy of H. G. Wells' "Out
line of History." This would be a
great addition to our library* and if
there is a reader of this paper that has
a copy lying idle on his shelf, he can
delight 200 eager readers if he will do
nate it to our Colony Library.
EDITOR OF "LIFE AND LABOR"
ENTHUSIASTIC OVER THE U.C.B.
Sarah Cory Rippey, managing edi
tor of the official organ of the Wom
en's International Trade Union League
"Life and Labor," writes to Carl E.
Lunn in answer to a letter written con
cerning the Universal Co-operative Bro
therhood:
" * * * that it is honest, worth-while,
constructive, and the outgrowth of
deep thought, wide experiencé, and
high vision, I should be convinced with
out other evidence than your own iden
tification with it. And how I should
love to help!
"While I have not had time to go
over your prospectus carefully, the
idea of the Brotherhood, as your let
ter presents it, appeals to me strongly^
First, there had to be, of course, inten
sive organization of workers, which
had of necessity to be exclusive. Now
the time has become ripe for the next
step—the organization of groups of
workers into one big organization, that
is extensive and inclusive. It means,
to me a tremendous advance toward
universality as opposed to individual"
ism; toward that brotherhood of all
peoples, regardless of race, or creed,
or calling, which we see now only with
the eyes of the spirit, but which in time
our physical eyes must surely behold,
since in that direction jies the march of
progress.
"Union organization has had to be,
but it is only a means to an end, not
ah end itself, as so many workers seem
to thipk. Every union lives too close
to its individual cause to be anything
else than narrow; and narrowness al
ways means intolerance and selfishness.
When We learn, as individuals and as
groups, to see things through our bro
ther's eyes, then we shall indeed have
.the millenium near.
' "Of course, when you said "Magaz
ine," I picked up my editorial ears.
What an amazing opportunity for some
one to preach the gospel of Brother
hood! I hope you will find an editor
with a glorified vision, a fearless heart,
and oh! a hot, hot pen, who can flood
the country with messages which shall
fire us all with a burning zeal for ser
vice, and quicken that understaonding
of all the many problems out of which
real desire for service is born."
WORKERS' CO-OPERATIVE
STORES PROSPEROUS
Despite uncertain prices and indus
trial depression during the past year,
many workers* co-operative stores thru«
out the country report a sound and sue«
oessful business for 1921. The Cotter,
Arkansas, Co-operative Store, owned
by railroad men and farmers, has had
a business of approximately $43,000
for the last six months of the year, ort"
which the co-operators saved a profit
of $4,808, besides paying off their en
tire indebtedness on store and fixtures.
The B. of L. E. Co-operative Associa
tion of Florence, S. C., reports sales
of $48,380 for the last half of the year,
on which the co-operators made a gross
profit of $1750 and a net saving of'
$4,450, after paying all expenses and
allowing for depreciation of store and
fixtures. The three largest workers*
co-operatives in Berks County, Penn
sylvania, show a net profit for the year
totaling over $12,600, while the small
er co-operatives of the county, includ
ing the co-operative printing plant,
have saved over $10,000 more for the
workers.
These and similar figures from afl
sections of the country indicate that
the workers have the brains to run
their own business whenever they set
themselves seriously to the task.
Talk about the soundness of private
business! Reports show that the
month of January 1922 hung up a re
cord for business failure that has not
been equaled in seven years! Co-op
eratives could not do worse. Most of
them are doing better.
ROLAND FOR
THEIR OLIVER
(By The Federated Press)
Healdton, Okla. — "The Knights of
the Visible Empire" is the title of a
new anti-Ku Klux Klan organization
formed here to "protect society against
mob rule as exemplified in the teach
ings of the Ku Klux Klan," according
to the announcement of John Q. Hyde,
one of the organizers. The organiza
tion is to make a state-wide appeal for
members.
THE POLITICAL PARTY
OF THE NEW ORDER,
.. - . _ . ,
New conditions demand new solu
tions. The old order must pass and
be replaced by a new one. In truth,
the new political Partv will not be £
1 rr 1
organization based, upcii universal fun
damental laws, that work for the good
of all. It will be a Party, only, dura
it» inception and gestation. When it
reaches maturity it will have grown
out of a part into the WHOLE.
Every complete healthy organism
has three essential parts or functions;
a center, a circumference, and a neu
tral sphere of balance or adjustment.
The center of the executive, building
force that moulds and directs the wish
es of the many thru the will of the one.
A center is not necessarily a single cell
or individual, but a complete organism
itself, haying its own center, circum
ference and neutral sphere working as
a unit or one, just as the head of an
individual has each of these parts and
executes or guides harmoniously the
unanimous desires of the rest of the
body of a healthy organism. As a
healthy human body is a harmonious
unity of lesser cells or units, so is hu
rocos
age of the One Macrocosm, a singl
pattern or design running thru all.
C2ch of the three main parts of a mi
crocosm has four attributes or qualities
making twelve in all and each one of
the twelve is also a twelve of lesser
attributes or parts, or 144 in each com
plex microcosm, each pâfî "being also
a potential reflection of the greater.
This is demonstrated in the zodiac and
symbolized in the twelve sons of Jacob
and the twelve disciples of Jesus. The
human body focuses the wishes of the
lesser microcosms in the Pituitary
Body, or seat of Will, and if the will
is in harmony and at one with the
Divine Will it will guide the growth
and functions of the body into normal
and healthy form. Any injury to the
Pituitary Body injures its ability to
function in true harmony with Divine
Will or Divine Design and an unhealthy
or inharmonious body results, both in
dividually and collectively. It is the
perversion and inversion of Divine Wi' !
by the lesser or individual will or as
pect, that is the real fall of, man that
manity a unity of individuals that
should follow the same plan and be a
harmonious Temple or body of the liv
in g God. Every organism, however
minute, is a microcosm or reflected im
THE RE-BUILDING OF L1ANO
Need of Hotel and Other Buildings Daily
Becomes More Urgent-New Electric
Light and Power Plant Provid
ed For.-Next Is New Hotel
Llano Colony will soon have a new
electric light and power plant, a visit
ing comrade having advanced the en
tire amount for its purchase and erec
tion.
ing rooms, cafeterias, library and read
ing rooms.
It is estimated that this first brick
building would cost $60,000 to have it
built by contract. But by building it
with oiir own labor and almost entire
ly out of materials from the natural
resources on Llano land, the cash out
lay is proportionately small.
\
The workers have built all the fine
hotels, but few have aspired to live in
them, and our object is not only to in
spire the desire to do so, but also to
offer the opportunity to the workers.
There are many co-operators who
are not yet prepared to take up their
permanent abode with us in Newllano
City, and for these comrades rooms are
reserved at $250 each, and the patron
may come at any time and öccupy the
room as long as he desires.
This plan offers advantages to those
who plan to spend the winter in the
South, as by the reservation of a room
they can live with us the greater part
of three winters—250 days in all—be
fore their investment is used up. By
living with us, we mean that you will
unentitled to eat three meals a day
witn'us. We will not lose anything on
this arrangement. Our present hotel
rate is $1.00 per day for room and
We now have half the necessary
funds for the first brick residence build
ing, the elevation and floor plans for
which are shown here and about which
we have been talking for some time.
This building is to be only a part
(one of the wings) of our complete
hotel arrangement, which will include
several such buildings around a central
unit which will house the kitchens, din
f=N j 1
7=A
M
M
M
m
l>
irr
TTT
3
n 1
(
^ — n
I n M I
Il — if
zLsm
?»y«v
n -n
E
La
a..
E
lhjh
b m
m r
ŒLffl
board, and there is no reason for rais
ing the price, as food is produced too
cheaply to necessitate that — with the
wastes and profits of canilalism r
Uhed.
Any balance crue a cv-upmti,ui i.
room reservation may at any time be
credited on a fujl membership appli
cation, and we earnestly invite all co
operators to visit us at any time they
are able to do so and familiarize them
selves with our achievements and our
aims. If one can spend only a week
or two, he will in that short time be
able to learn much as to our resourc
es and the soundness of our plans and
the wonderful possibilities of the co
operative efforts öf thosç who produce
the wealth of the world but have it
taken from them in a thousand forms
of Drofit. interest, and r«mt.
www uMRrmxen ixt explain m
the columns of The Llano Colonist, but
we are always glad to answer questions
—always glad to hear from those who
are interested in the progress of our
work. And if you have $250 that you
can spare—we are sure that it can
never be used so effectively as just
at present. It is an investment and not
a donation that we are asking you to
make, and you can apply it on p. com
plete membership or use it for vaca
tion purposes at any time you please.
The Electric Plant Problem Has Been Solved.
The Next Big Thing in the Line of Construction
Is The New Hotel, and We Are Half Way
Toward Starting It. NOW Is the Time YOU
Can Help Most. Let us Hear From You.
Write for more information and tell us what you think of our work.
». »
Llano Co-operative Colony . Leesville, La.
has brot all the inharmony, sin, sick
ness and death into the world.
If a new Party would have healthy
'growth and virile functioning power.
{t must obserw and fol | ow the design
0 f the Great Architect implanted with
in every cell, molecule, and atom. It
must be truly democratic; a Party of
tÄriwXtÄt
founded upon Unity, Justice, Freedom,
and Fraternity and. imbued with tol
erance, harmony and selfless love, or
love for the Whole, the Greater Self.
It must recognize the fundamental fact
that the Earth belongs to all. It must
establish Equity in exchange and en
courage freedom of individual expres
sion with perfect liberty for mutual
co-operatton without coercion of ma
jority or minority.
To builtC such a national Party, a
center or nucleus should be established
I in a suitable, inexpensive, country* lo
cality. High rent city quarters are not
necessary. Such a center should be a
complete microcosm, with its execu
tive center, membership or circumfer
ence, and a neutral sphere or judicial
body to maintain equity. This center
should enroll all applicants for mem
bership with their Post Office address
es, thus making lines of communication
from center to circumference by which
a powerful invincible organization may
be built up, similar in construction to
that of a wire wheel with wires or
forces crossing at the neutral sphere,
the judicial body. A nominal annual
membership fee, of probably one dol
lar, would meet organization and run
ning expenses.
All officers, whether executive or ju
dicial should serve without time limit
subject to the recall of the members;
and all candidates, nominated by the
direct ballot by mail, should sign con
tracts or pledges of allegiance to the
Party principles, agreeing to either car
ry out those principles as interpreted
by the members thru the referendum,
or resign from office. All officers
should be privileged to select their own
associates or assistants in carrying out
the special functions of their respective
offices.
The duality of all manifestation
should be recognized by giving the
mother-sister principle equal voice and
right with its father-son principle in
ALL departments.
When such a Party wishes to make
nominations, as for instance, a Presi
dent and Associate President of the
United Stftes, it would mail a notifi
cation and ballot to each member. Such
ballot could be secret by having it seal
ed in a clean, unmarked envelope, en
closed in a larger one addressed to
the Party Secretary and having the
voter's name and address upon the
corner of the outer one. The sealed
ballot to be dropped into the ballot
bok by the Secretary, in the presence
of the Judges of Election, after mark
ing the member as having voted. When
the choice of the members has been
thus obtained, a compliance with pre
sent red-tape and regulations could be
made by calling a convention made up
of local delegates representing each
State by proxy to verify and announce
the result. The confusion and expense
of car fare for a large convention, im
cessitating thousands of miles of travel,
would thus be avoided.
Such a Party would be safe for De
mocracy and when it grew to sufficient
strength and nuifibers, to elect a cot
erie of National officers, the rules and
regulations of the Party would auto
matically become the laws of the land.
Such a party ought to appeal to all
thinking members of the now-existing
parties for, thru it, they could better
accomplish all the things they seek. It
should appeal to and unite all lovers
of true Liberty and Equity, and all who
realize that the Voice of the People
is the Voice of God, "Vox Popoli Vox
Dei Est."
The "Herald of Light" hopes to or
ganize in the near future the nucleus
of a New Party for the New Order and
would gladly hear from all who are in
terested or who wish to assist in the
birth of such an organism.—Edgar
Conrow, in the "Herald of Light," Hal
ycon, Californa.
MURDERER OF THE YOUTH
OF THE NATIONS
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — "Instead of regarding
fighting as an honor we want it re
vealed as it really is, the murderer of
the youth of the nation, the poisoner of
good will, the wrecker of industry and
the common enemy of the human
race," said Col. Raymond Robins here
in an address at the annual meeting of
the Women's Trade Union League, on
"The Washington Conference and
World Peace. Col. Robins declared that
while the nation still is suffering from
the last war, it is rapidly approaching
and preparing for another.
Ltarning without thought is labor
lost.—Confucius.
Just a Word to the
Readers of the Colonist
From letters and other sources, I
' find that many Colonist readers have
imbibed the idea that out soil here is
awfully poor and THEREFORE we are
' on to a hard proposition, if not on the
' road the the eternal bow-wows. Be
cause I told the truth as reported in
i the bulletin of the Louisiana State Ag
; rigultural College on the analysis of
j Vernon Parish Soils and stated also
I the truth that quite all the long-leaf
pine lands were deficient in lime, ni
trogen, phosphorus, and a little below
the requirements for fertility in pot
ash, some people have jumped to the
conclusion that there is no remedy and
that the lands we have bought and are
buying are low priced because they are
no good, etc. There is one of two
things true of them, to come to any
such conclusion. Either they know
nothing of real practical agriculture,
or if the are farmers, they çire of the
kind that when an agent of the Agri
cultural Department spoke to them to
how to preserve the fertility of their
soils or how to produce fertility on a
pcor or rurt-down soil, said "You can't
tell me anything about soil. I have
worn out two farms already." Let me
tell these pessimists that we are adding
lime to our soils that we get RIGHT
HERE ON OUR OWN LANDS; we are
adding humus and nitrogen that we
get right here on our own lands; and
we have made a start growing kudzu,
the best nitrogen-gatherer of them all,
end really are breeding and will pro
duce kudzu roots until we wTT have
this soil builder in abundance to put
wherever needed. When I wrote the
short article that appeared lately on
the kudzu vine, I omitted a great deal
that is interesting, but will go more into
detail later. Let me say to these weak
hearted pessimists who, like a mule,
will shy and scare at an old stump or
a white paper, and whose imaginations
run riot with all manner of thoughts
of discouragement, but are as tame as
lambs on thoughts that tend to en
couragement—let me say to them t'na f
they had better cure their disease of
pessimism; for here what we have done
and what we are doing will cure that
disease, unless it has developed to a
point of monomania.
By George D. Coleman
1 Of course, that kind of people never
heard of J. S. Smith ,who has made
! himself wealthy by systematically buy
' ing poor and run-down farms, ha^ re
stored them to fertility, and sold tnem
at a great profit! Neither have they
heard of Jacob McQueen of Baltic,
Ohio, who, when the doctors said he
would die soon, took up a farm known
as the poorest farm in Tuscarawas
County, often called 'the briar patch,
and, by growing nothing but "poverty
grass," not only made it the most fer
tile farm in the county, but has added
two adjoining farms to his property.
If a man condemned by the doctors' to
die has done this in Ohio and in doing
it has regained his health, her e, w here
we have a longer growing season "and
a better climate, we, of course, can t
do Tt—according to the reasoning of
chicken-hearted pessimists: "It can't
be done ! " REALLY NOTHING CA!
BE DONE WHERE THERE IS NOT
THE WILL AND THE COURAGE TO
DO IT. McQueen had to pay out cash
for his lime, while we have not to pay
out one cent for lime. While McQueen
and others I could name had to pay
cash for many of the elements to build
up their land, there is at present on
ly one item we have' any need to buy
—and that is phosphate, which we will
buy as ground phosphate rock. And
there is a great probability that there is
phosphate rock in one place on our
land, and when the present rush of
work is over, or has slacked up a lit
tle, we are going to see if that proba
bility is a certainty. Even if we have
to buy ground phosphate rock, the
quantity needed to be used is small,
and, applied in that form, will give re
sults for 3 to 4 and even 5 years. So
what on earth are you people getting
scared about? We here are not of
that breed, or there never should have
been the progress and growth we have
had. Both Smith, and McQueen, and
others, who have made poor soils fer
tile and restored soils that soil-robbers
falsely called farmers had robbed of
their fertility, did their supposed mar
vels and miracles very simply. They
used nitrogen-gathering plants and they
have no patent or copyright on their
methods; and there is nothing morally
or legally to prevent us from following
5
I the advice of the Carpenter of Nazar
eth, "Go thou and do likewise," and
j we are going to do it, ARE DOING IT,
j and are adding some other improve-*
ments, that, according to their written
[ and printed experiences, they seem to
I know nothing about—therefore, in the
ords of Phillip to Nathaniel (See
ohn 1:46), "Come and see." We
propose and will soon have land here
as rich as any market garden be
tween here and Long Island. The
fertilizer, made and found on our own
lands, has been added to our big gar
den, to some private gardens, to the
new lot of fruit trees lately set out, and
to some land near the Dairy. We have
added in quantity that probably no
other lands in Vernon Parish have ever
received before, because, when Lees
ville, the county seat, was searched for
a six-tined manure fork, no merchant
had one in stock, and one of them said
"You don't seem to know that South
ery farmers do not use manure." That
may be true of the majority, but not
true of all, hence there are successful
farmers in the South ; but they are men
who know how to make and use man
ure and in a limited way use nitrogen
gathering plants. We do all of that,
and THEN SOME. "Come and see.'*
DOES HARDING FAVOR
INDUSTRIAL SLAVERY?"
Washington. — Enlisted men in the
United States navy are made available
for instant service as strikebreakers,
and the clauses in the LaFollette Sea
men's act which give foreign and Am
erican seamen the right to quit their
ships in a safe port in this country are
repealed, by two sections of the Green
Jones ship subsidy bill, upon whiçh
the house and senate committees will
begin joint hearings on March 16.
Andrew Furuseth, president of the
International Seamen's Union of Am
erica, and Samuel Gompers, president
of the American Federation of Labor,
are preparing statements to the public
disclosing the "industrial slavery" fea
tures of this administration measure.
They are analyzing the probable mean
ing of the vague provisions in the bill
for a merchant marine naval reserve,
to be controlled by the secretary of
the navy and to be paid from an an
nual allowance of $3,000,000 a year..
Members, of this reserve "in good
standing" are to receive one month's
base pay, annually, as a retainer for
their active service in case they are
needed. "Good standing" is not de
fined in the bill.
What Is a
Co-operative
Farm?
, The Llano Co-ôperative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY? -
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type Qf co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co-operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attractive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery, tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer_many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as'broom corn, peanuts, or other produee
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education Qf his children, the co-opefative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
îhe child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
\ WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is thai îome co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is. that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get onto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In thià section, a very small acreage is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries and farms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—IF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want tb live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-operative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colqny.
$15.00 an Acre
/;
It is said that a man and his family can live 011 five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes "needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel — board and
Llano Co-operative Colony
Leesville .... Louisiana
Here I am in New York. It is a huge
city. The most impressive thing to rne
is the transportation system. The im
mensity of the underground system al
most staggers one. Miles upon miles
of it; trains, six and eight cars long,
rush with resounding speed. There is
no confusion—all is order. Yet the
present facilities are inadequate to take
care of the increasing population.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
We marvel at the aquaduct at Rome
and the great coliseum seating 80,000 ;
the Acropolis at Athens; the walls of
China, and the huge piles of rock in
the sands of Egypt. These awe one be
cause of the age they possess. The
mysterious catacombs of Rome stir the
imagination. Why were they built and
by whom? A fairly good guess is
made.
I Yet here in modern New York, the
subway. A few years sufficed to con
struct it. The monument of Ghiza
stands a mute testimonial to the slave
labor of ancient Egypt. Korfu built
i a great one and it is said that 350,
000 men labored for thirty years to
raise it. Yet, more stone has been tak
en from Culebra pass alone than is in
the pyramid of Korfu. Amazing ad
vance !
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
A tall building in New York is not
'7 lul "\r
building
'7 lul "\r
so very impressive; for the reason that
it stands amid a collection of tall build
ings. The great Singer building with
its 56 stories startles the mind upon pa
per more than when you see it. While
piercing the sky many stories more
than its brothers, yet it doesn't thrill;
it has too much competition.
Close by are dozens of giant build
ings—stone and steel. Almost anyone
of them sinks into insignificance the
bigness of the past.
« * * «
I am writing this in the room former
ly occupied by Harry K. Thaw the
slayer of Stanford White. The mon
ument left by Stanford White, the Mad
ison Square Building, is but a block
away and frowning down upon us is
the Metropolitan Tower with its 28 or
30 stories. The time of day i? shown
by illuminated hands—very attractive
in the dun of a murky day. One block
north is the Flatiron building, known
the country over. It's a triangular
building and, while very high, looks
small in this forest of buildings.
And the crowds! Eternal crowds!
Go on the street at any hour, this sec
tion of Fifth Avenue and the intersect
ing Broadway is swarming with peo
pie. Where are they all going? What
are they doing here? Probably, the
same as myself, looking for a larger
market for personal services.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The other day I went over Hack
ensack way and saw the famous Hack
ensack Meadows. New Orleans
built on such ground and assuredly as
soon as this land is drained the Great
er New York will take it in. Engineers
seem able to do anything.
I * ¥ * ¥
I have frequently mentioned the ad
vances made in wireless, or radio
phoning. I had the pleasure a night
or two ago of dancing to the music of
Lopaz's Orchestra in the Pennsylvania
Hotel in the home of my friend George
Palmer, way over in New Jersey. He
has a wireless set. We heard a well
known baritone of one of the big
churches giving a program of songs.
We heard ships at sea, 340 miles away
talking to the Port of New York, mak
ing arrangements about docking. Ar
lington at Washington sent time and
we all set our watches.
When one thinks of the tens of thou
sands who are listening to daily pro
grams around here and the odd 500,
000 in America, a glimpse of the mag
nitude can be grasped of where the
radiophone has advanced within a few
years. To hear those voices coming
from a horn, magnified a thousand
¦ tiiges, sends shivers up and down the
spine. Immortality is not a hard thing
to believe in now!
When silence was secure we. could
hear the buzz of the wireless operator,
several of them, as they sent their mes
sages. I'm not very familiar with the
Continental code which is generally
used.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
I am living in the wonderful Peter
Stuyvesant Hotel, at 86th Street and
Central Park West. This means that
Central Park is staring us in the face,
the two reservoirs shunt the rising sun
into our faces from the mirror which
stands close to the bed. It is an odd
experience to be on the 12th story, ly
ing in bed, looking into a mirror and
see what is taking place in Central
park.
Central Park is not at all like what
1 had expected. It's not as wierd or,
great as I expected. I had been rath
er led to believe it was something like
Yosemite or a miniature Yellowstone.
It is an innocent, delightful park, about
three miles long, and about three-quar
ters of a mile wide, starting at 59th
Street and ending at 110th Street. It
is a big park all right, stones cropping
Meanderings
By Robert K. William«, D. C., Ph. C.
thru the turf here and there and trees
in liberal profusion. It is crossed here
and there by "cross town lines." Fifth
Avenue is on one side and Central Park
West is on the other side.
If anyone had given me this descrip
tion before I came I'd had no difficul
ty in understanding what it was all
about.
The big museum, two blocks long, is
on the Filth Avenue side and from my
room I can look down upon the stone
roof. While waiting for a car a few
days ago, I decided to go in with Sis
ter Jean, who swears by—and at—
New York. She says that New York is
the apotheosis of cities upon the earth,
and I'd accept her judgment, for she's
traveled west as far as Davenport, and
been over to Jersey City once or twice.
Yes, she's fond of New York—I don't
blame her, tho.
Where in the world did all the ma
terial that fills the great halls of this
museum come from and who gathered
it? Objects from every known coun
try, from the first faint dawn of his
tory to the present, stand there for in
spection. One of the most gruesome
things I saw was a mummy of a wom
an, folded up in a grave, with cups,
food and water jars, just as she was
placed there in the Nile valley four
g Her fi nails
u „ ; _
and hair and teeth look just like any
particular lady of to-day. She's in an
advanced stage of emaciation, thru
lack of nutriment.
While standing there looking down
at this form of a once woman, throb
bing, pulsating with life, filled with
thoughts, desires, ambitions, loves and
hates! Who was she? What did she
think when alive and where is she
now? Ah, that's the question.
If one wants to feel the insignifi
cance of self and appreciate the great
ness of time, and how it levels every
thing, destroying, revamping, unfold
ing, just look at these still forms and
speculate on the antiquity of man and
the world and ask the question "And
for what?"
An old priest, sevèral thousand years
old lies in state, his body uncovered
and slightly shrunken. He has splen
did features, skull shaped practically
as that of any of your friends. He i:
s&id to be the best specimen so far dis
covered, i
The art of Greece, from Praxiteles,
Phidias and unknown sculptors stand
all around; reproductions and replicas
of the buildings and friezes charm and
interest. Rare gems, pottery, glass
bowls, papyrus, rugs, cloths are shown.
It will take days and days to go thru
the museum. An education for a think
ing person can be had on every floor
and 1 in every room. Teachers with their
broods, ten and twenty, were seen here
and there, the teachers explaining ev
erything to the young eager minds. I
was just thinking what a wonderful
chance these New York children have
if they are only made to embrace the
free chances of filling the mind with
the history of the past.
¥ ¥ * *
Amazing, gorgeous, impelling as is
the museum, we come out and look up
and down Fifth Avenue and see that
wonderful stream of life, going both
ways, street cars, busses, cabs, taxis,
horse barouches, the subway and the
elevated, and stand in admiration and
awe of the present-day New York.
The traffic on Fifth Avenue on the
street is controlled by an ingenious
system of lights reflected from tow
ers set a few blocks apart. These
lights obviate the possibility of con
gestion. It is like watching a well
trained army to see the traffic, rushing
pell mell seemingly one instant, then
all stop for blocks, at a light signal.
It's amazing.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
I am connected with Nepoleon Hill's
Magazine now, little "Nap" having
given me the business managership of
that very much worth-while publica
tion. All you people who receive it
will find much material that will have
peculiar, personal interest for you.
tp is a thoro co-operator, and is
teaching the uninitiated what it really
means, thru its«pages.
HEROES OF GLORIOUS WAR?
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — Nineteen more Ameri
cans who enlisted here last summer to
help Spain in her glorious war on Mo
rocco are back. Only one of them
brought back *vith him anything ex
cept memories of ill-treatment, deceit
and abuse. That one—John Hardy of
Elvira, Ohio, bought a Moorish bullet
in his chest. His experience of the
Spanish army was such that he would
not let Spanish surgeons try to extract
it, and he expects to go to a hospital
here to have it done—if he can get the
money.
What is eternal life to a man who
cannot use a half hour of this life
well ?—Emerson..
PRAETORIAN GUARD
PLUTES IS
(By The Federated Pre»)
Los Angeles. — About a year ago s
vigilant movement called the Citizens
Police started for the alleged purpose
of combatting all forms of lawlessness.
A few days ago this organization v
perfected and it turned out to be an
other instrument for aiding the Mer
chants and Manufacturers Association
in its fight against "radicalism." The
Citizens' Police is headed by a so -call
ed crime commission of 50, among
them the president of the M. and M.
and several members of the Better Am
ericans. The members are organized
in city blocks, each block having a
captain. Standard police whistles are
the medium of warning and commun
ication. So far 1824 blocks have been
. . .,
.organized, with 76 district captains su
P ervlsln 8 e wor 1
Australian Giant Beans
NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way an egg-plant
Much resembles the latter—except
that by many colonists it is
mach preferred to it
Grows to thé enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
ökure *?ith each packet of seeds.
1 The colonist who introduced Aas
.-alian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1,
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOWl
Prise-—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
ERIE LABOR PRESS
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class.. Member»
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penna. Live snappy. Breezy.
Sample Copy free on reques One Year, $1.50
The Eret Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE. MISS.
IS
A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur«
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1,00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mern
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE —As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY—
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject aj
does THE EQUITIST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash.
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
(Do You Want Her?)
A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts the new girl, as exem
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
*
The Llano Colonial
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEESVILLE. LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Entered as second-cla»> matter. May 14, 192J, at the postoffice at
Leesviile, La., under act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS: Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tions regarding the publications to The Llano Publications, Leesviile, La.
This will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name as it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER —Editor.
The only remedy for the high cost
of living is to grow your own food,
Two hours of intelligent work is all
it costs to produce a bushel of pott
toes. How much do you have to pay
for them?
As long as othèrs raise and keep the
chickens, you will have to pay a big
price for eggs. Why not keep your
own chickens and secure eggs at „first
hand at the expense of the chicken's
keep?
It is charged that Mayor Robert A,
Kemyon of Pawtucket, R. I., the other
day gave order to private guards and
police to fire upon unarmed strikers in
front of the Jencke's Spinning Co., mill
of Pawtucket, which resulted in th
death of a bystander and the wounding
of a score of others. As long as work
ers will vote savage brutes into offices
of trust they may expect just such treat
ment.
John D. Dodge, son of J. Dodge of
the Dodge Car Co., and now the pos
sessor of $2,000,000, was set free from
the Detroit County jail after spending
5 days there for speeding. He was
re-arrested and taken to Kalamazoo,
Mich., to answer a\ charge of speeding
there, and having a young girl in his
car without her consent. The girl
jumped from the car while going at
a rate of 30 miles an hour and was
hurt.
And yet we are all breaking our
necks to get rich—and foolish.
A state-wide campaign is on foot in
Alabama to force the government to
lease to Henry Ford the Muscle Shoals
project.
The time is now for Louisiana to
step in and help the movement. This
can be done and should be done at
once. It is a vital question with us here
ip Louisiana that Henry Ford be suc
cessful in getting the lease, first be
cause we are assured of a quare deal,
cheap fertilizer, and employment for
thousands. It will also add considera
ble to the value of our lands by the
establishment of the plant under the
direction of Ford and Edison. Again,
it will defeat the fertilizer trust whose
one object is to throttle any effort to
lessen the price of fertilizer. Wake up
to this splendid opportunity before it
is too late.
Secretary of War Weeks has order
ed all American troops that are now on
the banks of the river Rhine in Ger
many to return to the United States on
or before July I, 1922.
Thif is important news, and comes
unawares; but we fully expected it
long ere this, because there has been
no effort on the part of the nations
Let Us Do Your
Job Printing
Quick Service
Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesviile, La.
represented at Versailles to bear the
'burden of the expense entailed in the
upkeep of the American Army there,
This was demonstrated when the Un
ited States sent a message some three
weeks ago demanding payment from
the last installment of the German in
demnity for the upkeep of the Ameri
can Army in Europe. This latest move
of Mr. Weeks leads us to believe tkat
the demand was granted. More of this
later.
The distinguishing traits of the lib
eral are his passion for human libera
tion, and his faith in knowledge as the
means of emancipation. The liberty
he seeks may be religious liberty, or
intellectual or political or economic or
aesthetic or moral or physical liberty,
or any other kind, or all kinds together.
But if he is a true liberal he will look
to the ever-expanding fund of human
knowledge as the sure and adequate
agent for its attainment. No man,
therefore, who looks with equanimity
on any form or manifestation of slav
ery can rightly be rated a liberal. Su
perstition, bigotry, intolerance and pre
judice-—whatever enslaves, be- it chains
or dogma, the liberal opposes with all
his strength. "Freedom through truth"
the liberal's- motto. But he alone
determines what for him is true. Am
erica was founded by liberals; liberal
ism is the essence of true American
ism.—John Jordan.
• t i j v
pr ° m,se ° f leadershlp -
This old world of ours is in a terri
ble mess. Europe, Asia, and America
all seem to be circling in a mealstrom
of mistakes. On the horizon of the fu
ture there are no humans that show
Chaos seems
to be the lot of every nation. Some
claim.that because there is no gold in
sight, there can be no hope. We have
the gold of the world, and look at the
condition of our country! The four
power treaty is but an example of the
pitiable need we have for real states
men. Look around whereever we may,
and the names that come to our lips,
are as dross. Harding, Hughes, Hoo
ver, Borah, Lodge, Reed, Brandegee,
Robinson, and Underwood, and a host
of others no w in the public eye are as
mere children playing with a man's
game of government, and our hearts
sink within us at the thought that in
all this vast country of ours there has
not appeared a single figure who has
a promise of an intelligence that will
command the respect of the people.
Our country that was so rich, is now
so poor that we are unable to bring
forth a Moses to save us from the
slough of despond into which we have
fallen.
Some people study all their life, and
at their death have learned every
thing except to think.—Domergue.
Conscious, Purposeful
Economic Reconstruction
The Llano Co-operative Colony be
lives in construction and production
and in the conservation of everything
that contributes to hpman well-being,
upliftment, happiness and security, and
has discovered the methods by which
these ends can be achieved here and
now without waiting on a conversion
of a majority to an acceptance of the
knowledge it possesses, or on a polit
ical victory at the polls, or on any oth
er expected previous occurrence that
has hitherto caused people to delay en
gaging in direct efforts of self-help.
The Llano colonists have acquired
the state of consciousness in which
they know that they are quite able to
care for themselves, to govern them
selves, and are not in very great need
of an extraneous rulership, guardian'
ship or domination The late Col.
Henry Watterson in his reminiscences
in the Saturday Evening Post, as the
conclusion of a long life's experience,
said: "Of all human contrivances, the
most imperfect is government. * *The
politician, like the poor, we have al
ways with us. As long as men delegate
to other men the function of acting
for them, of thinking for them, we shall
continue to have him." And will fail
to achieve their welfare and things that
they need, he might have added.
People must be willing to be respon
sible for themselves; they must deter
mine and make sure to control them
selves and deal honestly and equitably
and in a friendly spirit with one anoth
This is direct self-government, and
it is applicable in any size group or
aggregation of people, be it a village,
town, city, state or nation. Why do
men look to others to do för them what
they should do for themselves? When
people directly learn and practice self
government, we may have an adminis
tration of public affairs that will serve
but never pretend nor attempt to im
pose arbitrary rule, or tolerate exploi
tation of the people under any pretext.
No human being created the natural
resources nor the processes or possi
bilities in nature that mankind make
use of for the satisfaction of their ne
cessities and whatever else contributes
to their happiness. And all human be
ings, having inherently the same neces
sities to maintain their existence, have
consequently the same right to access
tô these natural resources aan'd poten
tialities without favoritism, partiality
or privilege to any individual or group
of people. All the righteous claim that
any man or woman ever can have j
against any other man or woman under i
natural law is compensation for labor
performed. Any other claim whatso
ever put forward upon the products
or services of another human being is
spurious, fraudulent, and cannot be
vindicated in equity.
When will people ever learn that we
must conform to the requirements "of
nature— thé natural, constitution of
things without and the natural re
quirements of our own being within?
Will the people ever wake up to the
fact that they cannot change truth?
A demonstration agent from the La.
State University, who lectured at New
llano the other day truly said that the
life problem of the farmers and their
wives must be solved by themselves,
that no one else could solve it for
them. That everyone else had his own
problem to solve and had no time, nor
any interest in solving the farmers'
problem.
When the farmer once realizes that
fact and decides to face his own prob
lem intelligently and take a look around
to see how others are managing things,
he is bound to decide for .co-operation
and work in harmony with his fellows
not only his neighboring farmers but
the productive workers in general thru
out the world.
Plenty is a natural law of the uni
verse, abundance is the reward of pro
duction. In spite of the most waste
ful methods there is enough and to
spare for all, even now, if it were dis
tributed according to the necessities of
the people, instead of being monopo
lized by greed.
Production and Construction are the
only methods by which wealth can be
provided. These only are the normal
natural sources of providence. False
teaching and erroneous ideas lead peo
ple to attempt to gain the necessaries
of life by unproductive labor or swind
ling tricks.
The "Freeman" of* New York well
says: An important part of wisdom
is not only to know what to do, but to
do first things first." That is what
the colonists at Newllano are doing.
They are doing what they are able to
do now, and they will progressively
undertake larger tasks ' as their abili
ties and means grow equal to the lar
ger enterprise.
The progress of the world depends
on the introduction and application of
true ideas and the increasing displace
ment of erroneous ideas and conduct.
The better everywhere is eliminating
the less desirable and less efficient in
production and it will also expel tie
less useful in distribution and in every
other activity and relation of mankind.
The motives that dominate the indi
vidual are determined by the plane of
consciousness, the degree of intelli
gence and the character of the emo
tions to which he has evolved. When
greed predominates, no consideration
or sympathy for the well-being of his
fellows is experienced or manifested.
And such people are exclusively ma
terially, end selfishly determined. The
powdr-lusting, domineering and arro
gant are obsessed by this diabolic in
clination and are chiefly responsible
for the largest measure of ills, depriv
ation, war and want that have afflict
ed the race.
Among the victims of this insatiable
greed and arrogant tyranny the feeling
or sentiment of fellow-feeling, compas
sion, sympathy, love, first manifested
itself. The well-being of others be
came a matter of considerable concern,
and th : s interest in the well-being of
others in course of time became strong
er and stronger, and by further growth
and increase will become so strong and
all-powerful that the exploitation of the
humblest human being will no longer
ke tolerated and greedy selfishness will
spurned and execrated by the ma
jority of mankind.
Just think of it! Those who, thru
the instrumentality and by the means
of unjust laws that they themselves
have cunningly enacted, have wrong
fully and criminally taken posses
sion of the wealth that by every prin
ciple of right belongs to all, boast of
their stolen loot and swag, as if it were
a highly meritorious achievement! But
the very fear for its security is an un
conscious confession o(, guilt on their
part. And this fear has induced them
to take recourse tö the infliction of the
most monstrous cruelty and the de
struction of human beings by mil
liones and millions in murderous war.
And they brazenly boast that "Might
is right," i.e., that the infliction of
cruelty and violence is right, provided
one is in a position to indulge himself
in such infliction of violence upon oth
er human beings. If in harmony with
the constitution of nature and right
when imposed upon the under dog at
the' present timé, then it will also be
right for the undër-dog in his turn in
reprisal to visit the utmost cruelty of
which he is able upon his tormentors.
And there are hundreds of millions of
those under-dogs, and in comparison
with his numbers the "Might is Right'
champions are but a mere handful
Reigns of terror, inaugurated by other
oppressors and despoilers in the past
have always ended in a reign of terror
of which they themselves have become
the victims.
The ability to inflict violence is nev
er right and never wiii become right,
and those who indulge themselves in
that mischievous foible will have a
dreadful awakening some day, if they
do not come to their senses and stop
before it is too late. "What a man
soweth that shall he also reap." It
is a law in nature that no one can es
cape. Beware! .
Men who would be builders of our
thought to-day must have a great mis
sion in their souls when they write or
speak to us. They must have a firm
faith in humanity. Truth is in too great
a demand to make anything justifiable
short of an honest attempt at a full re
alization of the vision caught of her.
Real men write or speak, not for mon
ey or tawdry fame, but from honest
motives alone. Yes, the full conviction
of his soul. Such was Lincoln. And
less than this is worse than nothing.
The Federal Reserve bank with all
that it promised to the people, has
been totally unable to stem the tide
for which it was made. Banks are
breaking all over this fair land of ours
as never before in all its history. Un
employment is again rearing its ugly
head about the masses. The soldiers
are crying out for a bonus. The peo
ple are crying out for some one to
save them from the ravages of more
taxes. The lands are lying idle. Bus
iness is no more. Credit has gone with
business, and we sit and wonder what
the coming day will bring. Men ask
each other in passing "What next?"
The morning papers are scanned for
some glimmer of hope for the future.
Crime runs rampant over the land.
The suicide harvest is increasing as
the days pass. Immorality is on the
increase. Raw alcohol, under the tit
les of. "moonshine," "Forest Juice,"
and other high-sounding names, is tak
ing its daily toll of human life. Men
sneer at the word "honor" when finan
cial matters are under discusion, and
we seem to be ever moving onward be
neath an irresistable pressure toward
some inevitable gulf. From time to
time we catch fleeting glimpses of our
normal selves, but sorrow clings to us
like burrs and we turn away from the
scene with disgust.
It is quite one thing to send 4 billion
men who have been reared in an at
mosphere of law and order and respect
for their fallows tô the training camps
of the nation, there to learn the correct
manner to kill, maim, and destroy ev
erything in sight; to send them over
the seas and put the weapons of death
in their hands and give them a free
hand to do as they wish, irrespective.
But to bring them back home again af
ter one or more years of slaughter, and.
t.o expect them to be the same sweet
fellows they were when they left home
and kindred—it can't be done, that s
all! And if they are denied the right
to work for an honest living, as are
many thousands at this writing, then
it is not to be expected that they will
sit supinely by and starve.
There is a big coal strike in prospect
in a week or so. In Europe they have
learned that the use of coal can largely
be now dispensed with, and in due
course of time without difficulty be en
tirely superceded. Switzerland and
Italy are speedily introducing electri
fication of railroads and factories by
utilizing the water power of the coun
try. The forces of nature, wind, wa
ter, and waves, are virtually unlimited
and only require being harnessed for
use. Intelligent realization of the gi
gantic possibilities of co-operative la
bor will uncover to workers the right
method of escaping from exploitation
and wage slavery. By voluntary co
operation and harmonious association,
the most satisfactory conditions for
happiness, plenty and security can be
realized.
Ingratitude 'is the world's recom
pense for benefaction. In return for
America's entrance into the world war
on the side of the Allies, Mousieur Lou
cheur, chief financier of France public
ly declares that that country will not
pay the three billions that they owe to
the American people—that they will
repudiate the debt. Tha American civ
il war involved the country in a debt
of about three billion and now France
asks that in addition to the expense of
America's participation in the war, it
also shoulder so large a 'sum of the
expenses of France. Funding the war
debt of the Allies as a whole amounted
also to practical repudiation, as the
American people will discover very
"Taking as a representative shipping
point the town of Albany, Georgia, and
for example the city of Baltimore as
the market fpr melons, the following
remarkable facts were developed: The
grower averaged for car-load ship
ments of melons, 7.5 cents per melon
—the total carrying or freight charges
(participated in by several rwalroads)
was 12.7 cents per melon—a total cost
to the DEALER in Baltimore of 20.2
cents per melon.
"Investigation of retail- prices show
ed that this same melon SOLD AT
ONE DOLLAR to the housekeepers of
Baltimore, netting the middlemen the
remarkable profit of over 300 per
cent." — L. and N. Ry. ad.
The farmer who hauls melons to
market at l/x cents each is too fond
of work; as is also the man who pays
a dollar for one of them. Why live in
the cities anyhow?
PEOPLE SAVE FIVE CENTS
ON A QUART OF MILK
The consumers of La Crosse, Wis.,
have rebelled against the milk distrib
utors, who charged them 12c a qùari
for milk purchased from the neighbor
ing farmers for less than half the price.
To stop this profiteering the co-opera
tors first favored a co-operative cream
ery. Then one of the leading 'doctors
of the city suggested public milk sta
tions. In order to benefit the whole
community, the latter plan was adopt
ed, and the citizens of La Crosse are
now getting milk for seven cents a
quart from the ten public milk stations
in the city, thereby saving themselves
over $100 a day.
LOW-DOWN TREACHERY
OF RAILWAY EXECUTIVES
(By The Federated Press)
New York.—Gross intentional negli
gence on the part of the railroads
while under federal control is respon
sible for decreased efficiency and in
creased costs, declared Frank P. Walsh
representing i the "intervening" rail
employes, before the Interstate Com
mC « Ce Commission, in session here.
The alleged charges that the de
creased outputs and the increased costs
were caused by the inefficiency of la
bor, Walsh told the commission, "are
false, and the railroads know they are
false. The railroads, while under fed
eral control, were run by the same per
sons as previously, but under condi
tions in which they tried to show that
the government could not run them."
Chico, Cal. — Labor unions in this
town fyave been providing free meals
for unemployed men camped in "jun
gles outside of town.
LARGE QUANTITIES OF
FERTILIZERS AT NEWLLANO
Comrade George D. Coleman read
two very interesting papers at the ag
ricultural nieeting of the Colony on
the evening of St. Patrick s Day, ancs
incidentally called attention to the great
value to the Colony's farming opera
tions of the many thousand tons of
decayed sawdust and hundreds of tons
of wood ashes available. The soii here:
is lacking in humus and packs so so
lid that it interferes with the necessary
soil aerification for favorable plant
growth. Where sawdust has been ad
ded to the soil in fair proportion, the
favorable effect is visibly in evidence
by the larger plant growth. It should
always be remembered that botl^ air
and moisture are necessary to the
growth of plants. There is no hidden
mystery about bacteria in the soil and
about chemical plant foods in the ^bil
that must be understood before the
land can be made to produce profita-?
ble crops. Where just the right con
ditions of soil moisture and air can be
supplied fairly good crops can be
grown, even if otherwise lacking in a
I high grade of fertility. The more fa
'vorable the conditions that are pro
vided for the. plants the better they
can perform their function of chang
ing and transforming the inert and in
organic mineral matter of the soil and
I other simple substances into the com
plex organic compounds suitable to
sustain animal and human life.
I Comrade Sutton called attention
to the importance of properly testing:
' all seeds that are to be planted. He
insisted that by scientific selections
¦ and breeding of seed corn the com
crops of the South could easily be in
creased from six to seven-fold: and
the larger crop will involve no greater
amount of cultivation than the crops
of 15 to 20 bushels at the present time
! With scientific fertilization of the
soil, added to careful selection and
breeding of seed, miraculous crops in
quality and quantity can be garnered.
• Seeds should be stored in dry, airy,,
cool places, where they are not sub
juct to sudden greart changes in tem
perature.
Fruitgrowing is to be discussed at
next week's meeting of the agricultur
al class.
LIBERATE CARPATHO-RUSSIA
(By The Federated Press)
Ottawa, Can. — That the Canadian
representatives to the forthcoming ec
onomic conference at Genoa support
the request of Carpatho-Russia for un
ion with Russia is the plea made to the
government by R. N. Mamilo, Winni
peg, president of the League for the
Liberation of Carpatho-Russia.
Don't forget that printing you have
—Let us figure on it. There will be
no charge for it; we will surprise you.
|[ Classi fied Section
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles to town; 1 mite to
school. About 40 acres wood; 30'
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grass;
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00).
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance in
cash. Will take Llano stock up to
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S.
care Llano Colonist ]4J
cty^ L J RADE F0R COLONY
MUCK—40 acres of bottom 'land,
mostly under cultivation, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.—H. A.
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
acres cleared and under cultivation.
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
f r Ce w,r, $,,0a Main road.
A- E WELDON, Rte !, Box 63, Lees
viile, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber on bal
*?n C <inn 0 ? d h ?, US * : lwo tenant houses.
$10,500 for all. — See G. T. Pickett,
Lano Lolony.
FOR SALE---102 acres; J52 acres
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 barns.
Price, $5,000. Close to Colony hotel.
oee ue orge T. Pickett. 39
¦ ^ —200 acres near Picker
ing; 30 acres in cultivation; good tim
ber on the balance; hummock and
black land; good six room house with
H fir " places: a bargain at
$4500.-—See Pickett Llano Colony.32
FOR SALE—55-acre farm near Pick
ering; 45 acres cleared of stumps,
well-fenced and cultivated; family or
chard of mixed fruits; two good hous
IVinn rnS o and « t ' 1er buildings. Price
$3,300. See G. T. Pickett, Llano
Leesville arid Louisiana Items
BOOTLEGGERS ARE MEET- \
ING THEiR WATERLGv
Sheriff Turner is having his hands
full these days, as a large number of
criminal cases are to be tried at the
Vernon Parish Court House next week,
and Mr. turner and his deputies who
made the respective arrests will have
to give their testimony according to the
facts as they found them. There are
from thirty to forty alleged "moon
shiners," all of whose joints and stills
were discovered by the ever-vigilant
eyes of the trusty men in the Sheriff's
orfice, and they indignantly deny that
the Parish, particularly Leesville, is ov
errun with "boozers" and smugglers of
intoxicants. The records at the Sher
iff's office, moreover, show that dur
ing Mr. Turner's entire term ot office,
every moonshiner arrested in the par
ish has been duly convicted and .pun
ished. Not one has ever escaped. The
Grand Jury will be busy with taking
evidence against an additional number
of violators of the Prohibition law,
which has never been enforced as rig
idly as it iä now by the present Sheriff
and his deputies.
CITY ELECTION NOW
WARMING UP
Mr. Lee McAlpin, Jr., having with
drawn from /the race for Mayor of
"Leesville, the contest has now narrow
ed down to the present incumbent, Hon.
Oscar E. Morris, and Dr. J. F. Smith,
both of whom are sanguine of success
at the polls on Tuesday, April 11th.
The canvass of the two candidates is
progressing quite lively, although not
boisterously, nor attended by any spec
tacular features. People just talk,
some praising the Mayor and his bus
iness-like work as the executive head
of the Leesville municipality; while"
others, advocating the election of Doc
tor Smith, advance the argument that
their candidates ought to be "given a
show." It is admitted on both sides
that the two candidates are equally
LEWIS BROS.
LEADING TAILORS
Phone 227
MAKE PANTS IN ONE DAY
We Tailor Them Right
Sanitary Cleaning and Pressing
ALTERING AND DYEING
DR. I. O. WINFREE
DENTIST
Office in Lyons Building
Over Stephens* Store
Telephones — Office 132
Residence 79
Post Office Box 126
B. Ar GUY
, NEW AND SECOND-HAND
FURNITURE
Only Store in Leesville Selling 2nd
hand Furniture
Next Door to Lewis, the Tailor's
Roberts, Tailors
* We handle all kinds of tailoring
work and guarantee satisfaction, or no
charges. Phone 144.
NOW ONLY 20 CENTS A POUND
Llano Peanut Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
Nature's Meat for Children
One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
value and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in I-lb., 4-lb., and 8-lb. cans, at 20c a pound.
Mail your order to—
Llano Co-operative Colony, Leesville, La.
capabje, straight-forward and deserv
ing of success, a fact which will pro
bably result in a small majority of the
votes for' the winner.
The candidates for City Marshall,
Mr. B. 0. Craft for re-election, Mr.
Abe L. Allen and Mr. John ScaiTe, are
"running" with public interest center
ed upon one of them who has been at
tacked on account of his theological
views, those favoring çither of his op
ponents having insinuated that he is
"not a Christian," a method of poli
tics that ought to be obsolete in these
our enlightened times. The religious
beliefs of a City Marshall cannot pos
sibly affect the performance of his pub
lic duties and the friends of the man
thus attacked are perfectly - logical
when they point out that their candi
date has been a brave soldier, who
won distinction and ifonors on the fir
ing line, a record which ought to be
convincing as fair as the qualities for
making this man an efficient police of
ficial are concerned.
COURT OPENS MONDAY
Next Monday, March 27th, the
Twelfth Judicial District will meet at
the Vernon Parish Court House, Hon.
Mr. Justice John H. Boone presid'ng,
to try a large number of civil and crim
inal cases.
TEACHERS' EXAMINATION
Teachers' examinations will be held
at the Leesville Court House by Hon.
Finly Stanly, superintendent of Vernon
Parish Public Schools, April 17th to
19th for white applicants and April
20th to 22nd for colored candidates
wishing to obtain teachers' licenses
WEST LA. BANK NOW <
IN RECEIVER'S HANDS
The demise of the West Louisiana
bank is now an assured fact. It has
gone into .the hands of a receiver, Mr.
John R. I Watkins of Shreveport in
charge. The defunct bank is no w un
der process of liquidation. This was
because Mr. Ward, who tried in every
way to save the bank, failed to rally
the depositors of the old-bank to come
to the rescue by subscribing for stock.
Had this been accomplished, there is
little doubt but the old bank would
have opened the doors and every de
positor would have received dollar for
dollar. *
We are informed that there are
$150,000 Ioanel on real estate. While
there are other loans,some good, some
not so good, some worse, all this paper
must be converted into money before
any can be paid out. How much on
the dollar will be paid is a questionable
matter. No one seems to have the re
motest idea. Yet Mr. Watkins seems
very hopeful in the matter and thinks
that after 60 days there will be the
first., payment made. Each depositor
should be sure to leave his name and
address with the officials, so that they
can be reached when the time comes.
Goodyear Shoe
Repairs
AT REASONABLE RATES
STABLES, LA.
It has been proven by a rigid series
of tests that both base ball and foot
ball players can do much better work
by refraining from eating the noon
day meal before entering into a test.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The City Commission of Biloxi, Miss,
has adopted an ordinance providing a
fine of $100 and 30 days imprisonment
for any person or persons parading the
city streets masked, or in any disguise
whatever.
* * * *
Judge Hamilton at Austin, Tex., ad
judged the City Police Commisioner of
that tçwn and F. G. Reynolds to be in
contempt of court, for refusing to an
swer the question, "Do you belong to
the Ku Klux Klan?" and fined them
both $100 and to remain in jail until
they agreed to answer the question.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Harry Frint, a keeper of a lighthouse
on the island of Hawaii found some
strange thing floating on the water
near the lighthouse. Thinking it was
the body of a man, he descended to
the shore and found it was a solid mass
of ambergris. He got $40,000 for it
in New York. Now he has retired.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
The McBride Law No. 4, one of the
uncompleted vessels which had cost
Uncle Sam $258,000 when all work
on it was ordered Stoppel, was sold to
W. C. Bailey, owner of the Bailjey wood
yrrd, Beaumont, Tex., for $250. *
Mr. Bailey has already realized $29
880 from the material on the hull of
this vessel alone, and there is every ev
idence that he will get at least $10,
000 more out of it. Read this over
again and whisper what you think to
yourself. We wouldn't care to have
you express your opinion out loud.
Madame Matzenauer, the famous
prima donna opera singer, advertised
for a chauffeur, hired the best looking
one that answered the ad< fell in love
with him, married him, fed him, cloth
ed him, allowed him $150 a month
for spending money, took him all over
the world with her, showered all kinds
of presents on him, and gave him the
life of a prince for two years. She
now admits that she threw him out of
her apartments in New York City last
week, because she discovered that he
had another on the string who is 20
years older than she who had lavished
all her esteem, affection and wealth on
him. We should like to hear from the
other fellow.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Bôbbed hair has gone. Madame
fashion has decreed it. London has at
last decided that bobbed hair has had
its run. The latest style is in the form
of a curl, or curls, khown as the horse
shoe wave. It lifts the locks high off
one temple while it falls gently down
over the other. There is a feather or
nament that goes with the newest de
coration, and they are in great demand.
Girls, don't bob; the time is near when
you will be glad to buy back what you
now would foolishly throw away. High
prices are being paid all over Europe
for the cutting of "bobs" as the bar
bers call them, and Miss Nineteen
twenty-two must buy her hair back
again if she will be in 'style.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
America's power to-day is depend
ent on coal, and Wall Street owns the
great bulk of our coal mines. This
ownership gives Wall Street a strangle
hold on American industry and trans
portation, and they are using that pow
er with a ruthlessness that amazes me,"
said Mr. Ford, when asked if he had
anything to tell the people of the South
about the Muscle Shoals. "Tell these,
people that my great fight is to keep
Wall Street off in this fight for the
Shoals. They are afraid t>f what they
know I can do there. If it is the last
thing I do, I shall exert all the power,
resource and influence to keep the rob
ber barons away from that enterprise.
We must fight to the last ditch to keep
these vultures away and free Ameri
can industry and agriculture from the
blight of the money power. To this
end I have consecrated my life. All I
want is a chance at Muscle Shoals,
and when I get it I will demonstrate
to them all that I will not only supply
our farms with more and better fertil
izer than they ever obtained before,
but I shall enjoy the fact that I can
give work and a wage commensurate
with a proper livlihood to perhaps 300
000 men." This work should be go
ing on at this very moment: every
day's delay will mean that the work
will have to be put off for another year.
But did you, or anyone else, ever know
Wall Street to give up a cinch on the
great American people without a fight?
This is but a part of what Henry
Ford gave out as information to the
American people. Better buy his pa
per, The Dearborn Independent, if you
are in sympathy with his work. This
paper is open to receive subscriptions
to both the Dearborn Independent, and
The Vernon Parish Democrat for only
$2.00 a year. Where do you stand?
Are you willing to do your share?
Subscription Rates: "The Llano
Colonist" weekly, for one year, $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign coun
tries, $2.50..
The Junior Colonist
VICTOR GADDIS, Editor
Reporters: Nellie Kemp, Margaret
Seelye and Beulah Gaddis.
h'
The Llano kiddoos had a change of
work last Saturday. The school chil
dren took their lunches and went to
the Ford ranch and spent the forenoon
picking up pine knots, 50 that the men
can plow the land and increase the
Colony farm. When they finished
their work they went to the swimming
pool and ate their lunch then took a
good-d-d-d cool-1-1-1-1 swim. A few of
us that were needed in the industries
and could not accompany the rest of
them to the Ford ranch, went to the
swimming pool after dinner. On our
return trip, we helped Dr. Thurman set
out cabbage plants. So you see how
we enjoyed ourselves. Don't you wish
you could have some of our cabbage?
We have about eleven hundred plants
oiit and they are growing rapidly.
* * * *
We have two new pupils in school—
Dora and Dawson Gryer. Dora is elev
en years old and in the fifth grade;
Dawson is eight and in the second
grade. We are sure they will be good
colonists.
—Miss Beulah Gaddis.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
MY ONE-MINUTE OBSERVATIONS
OF THE SCHOOL CHILDREN AT
RECESS
Vinita is waving her band comb 'round,
Mildred is busy not making a sound,
Nellie on the door is thumping,
Victor is wiggling and jumping,
Louise is reading a love story book,
Bennett is calling someone a crook,
John is trying to get out of work,
Ruby is giving her shoe string a jerk,
Emma is talking about going wading,
Rosa with a pencil a picture is shading,
Arthur for his lesson doesn't seem to
care,
Truman is smoothing back his hair,
Maxine is sitting up very straight,
Erma just now came in late,
Clarence is tired of teasing the girls,
Helen is saying something about curls,
Albert now is scraping his feet,
Gertrude is saying "Those flowers are
sweet
Clifford is talking about going fishing,
Max for a piano is a-wishing,
Beulah looks at the stocking she tore
on the fence,
Margaret is writing all this nonsense.
Do YOU Read
The American Co-operator
MARCH NUMBER NOW IN MAIL
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, and points out their successful formulas.
It also carries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal order, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "THE AMERICAN CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
American Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
Job Harriman's Editorials are well worth the price of the year's subscription, for
they are far-seeing, thought-provoking, and always new.
You can learn Esperanto through the Easy Lessons printed in The American Co
operator and written by Howard Buck.
Theo. F. Cuno, a veteran radical newspaper writer, gives two pages of comment
on the latest thought in current reading, throwing the spotlight of years of experience
onto the sayings of men of to-day.
Many other special articles are printed each month.
You ought to keep in touch with this line of thought. The writers in "The Am
erican Co-operator" write without fear of editorial displeasure; they speak their minds.
It is free thought.
CONTENTS OF THE MARCH NUMB ER
THE PACIFIC CO-OPERATIVE
LEAGUE IN RECEIVERS* HANDS
TO PROTECT MEMBERS.
THE SPIRIT OF REVOLUTION—By
Alanson Sessions.
WE, OF NEWLLANO—By Theo F.
Cuno.
THE FAILURE OF CO-OPERATORS
TO CO-OPERATE—By Job Harri
man.
"IS DEATH NECESSARY?"—By Dr.
John DeQuer.
JOB HARRIMAN'S EDITORIALS.
0
DOINGS OF THE MONTH AT
LLANO—By Frank H. Newman.
EASY LESSONS IN ESPERANTO;
AND CURRENT NOTES-By How
ard L. Buck.
UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE BRO.
THERHOOD LOGICAL FRUIT OF
' PROPAGANDA — By Ernest S.
Wooster.
OPEN LETTER TO W. R. ATKINSON
—By H. E. Branch.
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Llano Colony
Lee* ville, Louisiana
KINDERGARTEN NEWS
The Merrill children, Lorene, Lucile,
Monroe and Ernestine, have entered
school again Tuesday, March the four
teenth, after seven weeks sickness with
the whooping cough. Monroe Merrel
had a very bad accident on Monday.
He fell out of a barrel and sprained
his arm.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Richard Lee has entered school again
after being sick with the whooping
cough.
¥ v ¥ ¥
The kindergarten children go out
nearly every day—that is, if the wea
ther is nice and it isn't too muddy.
They pick flowers and their teachers
who are two girls from the school,
make wreaths and they look very nice.
The flowers the children planted are
coming up nicely.
—Miss Nellie Kemp.
* * * *
The Llano children may be termed
"minute men." If you want anything
done immediately, just call on us. We
dislike being egotistic, but nobody
seems to tpag oft us, so we must put in
a word for ourselves. Yesterday, we
were requested to find some flowers
for decorating our hotel. There were
about 20 of us. We searched the
woods for two hours and found al
most a wagon load of flowers. These
flowers were for Mrs. Rose Blair's re
ception. She is going to leave us soon.
Everybody has enjoyed her visit and
will be sorry to see her depart.
HARMONIOUS CO-OPERATION
)
WINS IN MINNESOTA
(By The Federated Press)
Minneapolis. — The contract for the
building of the new Franklin Creamery
has been awarded the Union Construc
tion Co., a co-operative contracting
concern owned by local labor unions.
As a result of increased business the
Franklin Creamery, also a co-operative
enterprise, is forced to build another
plant. The cost of the new machinery
is estimated at $250,000.
Keep your fears to yourself, but
share your courage with others.—R. L.
Stevenson.
(By The Feder,
Milwaukee.—John
D. Benedec.to were fii
each in West Allia city
found guilty on a charge of
ing literature for a Sacco-Van
test meeting. According to
the two were placing posters
ing the meeting, in store wi
West Allis.
CAPITALISTIC VAMPIRES
OPPOSE CHILD PROTECTION
(By The Federated Pres»)
Washington.—Council for the North
Carolina cotton mill owners who argued
before the United States supreme court
March 8, that the child labor act is un
constitutional, pleaded that: the child
in whose behalf the suit to nullify the
law was alleged to be brought, had
be*n deprived of his inherent right to
work.
"The wage-earner," said the lawyers,
"have a manifest and vital interest in
the freedom of the employer to exer
cise his judgment and will as to the
continuance of the employment, unaf
fected by the coercion of illegal action
on the part of congress touching or
dealing with that employment." And
also: "Why» guarantee to the citizen
the right of life, liberty and the pur
suit of happiness if his means of ob
taining those things are without pro
tection in the law,"
This precious right, in the case so
solemnly argued, is the right of chil
dren in southern cotton mill towns to
work long hours in the mills, under
conditions which stunt their growth,
ruin their health and prevent their
mental development, for wages below
the subsistence level.
KANSAS TAXPAYERS OPPOSE
THE INDUSTRIAL COURT
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — President Freeman,
Kansas State Federation of Labor, has
notified A. F. of L. headquarters here
that "unqualified support" in electing
officials who will repeal the state in
dustrial court act was voted by a tax
payers' convention at Topeka, in which
farmers, labor, professional men and
business men participated.
The greatest of all faults is to be
unconscious of none.—Thomas Car
lyle. »
ACCEPT SHORT RATIONS
10 HELP STARVING RUSSIANS
(By The Federated Pre»)
Katonah, N. Y. — Brookwood Work
ers' College, has voted to go on short
îations for two weeks in order that the
money thus saved may be sent to the
workers of starving Russia. It was
further voted that the contributions be
sent directly to the Friends of Soviet
Russia so that it may be administered
by the Russian Red Cross.
It ià estimated that $100 will be
made available by this action and this
in spite of the fact that the average al
lowances for food at Brookwood is on
ly 49 cents per person per day. .
"Dis hyah new minister am sure
crazed," said the colored woman. He
tole mah husband, what weighs two
hundred and fo'ty pounds, to bewar,
lest he be weighed in de balance an'
foud' wantin."
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP-this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp and the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked; then it flows out at the other
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining of
white sugar. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
te»'—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about 1J4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food value. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and plain. Try a pound of this and
see what Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to:
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
Made and Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in; —
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, ' Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or iow. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
«s fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
ERIE MAINTAINS
FINE LABOR ORGAN
A bright and breezy paper comes
to our exchange desk weekly from Erie
Penna. It is the Erie Labor Press and
is the organ of the Central Labor Un
ion and the Socialist Party of Erie.
Erie is a manufacturing town of 110,
000 population, located on Lake Erie,
and besides being a lake port it is a
railroad center and the home of ona
of the largest plants of the General
Electric Company.
The Labor Press is a fearless work
ing-class organ, owned and controlled
by the workers of Erie. From its last
number we glean that the unemploy
ment problem has struck the town very
hard, there being nearly 12,000 work
ers unemployed at present.
Even in Erie the workers are slowly
and surely learning co-operation and
they have at present their own coop
erative store, doing $2,000 worth (A
business each week. Plans are now un
der way to branch out with the gro
cery business and several desirable lo
cations have already been chosen for
branch stores. Every worker in Erie
will soon be in easy reach of a co-op
erative store owned and conducted by
the workers.
The political, economic, and co-op
erative movement of labor all com
bine in supporting the Labor Press and
in this way Erie workers unite in main
taining one of the finest labor papers
published anywhere.
The paper carries the Federated
Press news service and combines with
the labor news of the world the local
labor and Socialist activities, that
makes it a mouthpiece that does credit
to the Erie working class movement.
DISSENSION WILL
BRING DISASTER
(By The Federated Press)
St. Louis. — Charles Lammert, pres
ident, St. Louis Building Trades Coun
cil, has resigned, stating that since his
craft, the Painters and Decorators, ac
cepted a 20 per cent wage reduction,
he cannot work in accord with a ma
jority of the other trades in the council
who voted against reduced wages.
Lammert, who has been president of
the Building Trades Council for 10
years, has been a leader of the conser
vative element.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
A man s vocation is the sphere in
which to illustrate his precepts.—Bish
op Brent.
The Most Important
Subject All Should Know
a
Said Samuel Butler in his book "God
the Known and God the Unknown,"
"Mankind has ever been ready to dis
cuss matters in the inverse ratio of their
importance, so that the more closely
a question is felt to touch the heart of
all of us, the more incumbent it is con
sidered upon prudent people to profess
that it does not exist, to frown it down,
to tell it to hold its tongue, to main
tain that it has long been finally set
tled so that there is now no question
concerning it."
But this disposition and impulse to
turn away from self-knowledge can,
and in the interests of the individual's
arid society's well being and happiness,
must be overcome. It is just as true
to-day as it was in the days of an
cient Greece that the most important
subject for every individual to attend
to it to learn to "know thyself," to
know what his individual conduct with
respect to himself ought ^o be to keep
in good health and to maintain good
health, and what his conduct to other
people ought to be in order to conform
to the principles of righteousness and
tthe golden rule.
As we look back into the past we
know that people have been taught all
kinds of errors in every field of phen
omena. Now, it does not matter p
continental what we believe or disbe
lieve concerning astronomy or the con
figuration of the earth, whether we be
lieve we are living on the outside of a
solid globe or on the inside of a hollow
sphere. Our action can neither change
nor be affected by either one config
uration or the other. What we can
definitely know, demonstrate and util
ise in the interest of our mutual well
being here and now is the only thing
that really counts and is of value for
human beings to know.
A reporter in a recent issue of the
New York Evening World mentions a
Mrs. Harriet Luela McCollum, who has
recently blown into that city from the
wild and wooly West, who makes the
bold claim that everyone can live to be
150, make a million, and be success
ful in every endeavor.
The following statement made by
Mrs. McCollum was read at the "last
meeting of the mental science class at
Newllano:
j "The secret is simple. It is based
^on a great scientific discovery, made
not many years ago—the vast, untap
ped power and resources of the subcon
scious mind.
1 "In every human being there is a
buried genius or a buried giant—a hid
den power to accomplish or to com
mand. The everage individual is like
a 100-acre field with but ten acres un
der cultivation. We know far more
than we are conscious of knowing.
First of all, decide what you want.
Most persons don't know that. They
think it would be nice to be rich, or
well, or beautiful, but they have not
formulated one single definite thing
which they desire.
"Choose your goal. Then visualize
it. See in your mind's eye the attrac
tive face and figure you yearn to pos
sess. Make a sharpe, clear-cut men
tal picture of your life when you have
obtained possession of a million dol
lars.
The next step after deciding what
you want to be and creating a picture
of yourself in the desired role, is to
acquire good health. And remember
that the mind creates the body. I have
remade myself entirely in eight years.
If you had seen me eight years ago.
is
il Y — "°— J 1 -"" <*e">
il Y <*e">
you would not know me now. I was
thin, timid, worn looking; I had an
lndistinct voice and no presence at all.
Health and beauty are not altoge
ther a matter of mental determination,
but depend to a great extent on nja
that we take lnto our bodies,
We eat too much protein— too
much meat. No one can live healthy
on a meat, potato and starchy dessert
diet. Be sure to eat something raw
every day and eat more green veget
ables than is your habit. Drink a
quart of sweet unpasteurized milk; or,
if you must take the pasteurized, drink
a glass of orange juice daily
Now about getting next to the mil
lion.
First, decide how you will get it
whether by taking it away from the
world, or by enriching the world to
such an extent that it will be glad to
hand you as much as you want. As
suming that you choose the second of
these two methods, pick out a field
for yourself, something that most ap
peals to you, and learn everything there
is to know in that field. Then find
your new idea. 1 he world will always
pay for a new discovery which serves
it.
Old age is a matter of letting your
self slump, or giving up to the idea of
age and death. Old age is a condition
and not a necessary one. It has been
mgrasned into the racial sübconscious
ness that we must die around 60 or
So we just lie down and die.
"To stay young one must act young
and think young. I told my class of
middle-aged men and women the other
day to run at least an hour every day
of their lives.
"Mental calisthenics every day for at
least an hour will help you to draw
out of yourself the wonderful things
that are in you. Cultivate your men
tal and emotional muscle just as you
cultivate that in your arms and legs."
Mr. Frederick Elias Andrews, now of
the Unity School of Christianity of
Kansas City, in the March, 1917 num
ber of Nautilus, published in Holyoke,
Mass., declared that through affirma
tion he had transformed himself from
a helpless cripple to a perfectly healthy
and normally formed man. The writer
met Mr. Andrews repeatedly and can
certainly testify to his present health
fulness.
Correct judgment and decision as to
food and other disciplinary matters are
also a mental determination as well as
all other actions in which man engag
es. The trouble with many people who
take a cursory look at mental science,
is that they do not take in the full
scope and influence of that subject.
The great object is to tame the pas
sions, to subdue the animal in man,
and the sensual inclinations. By bath
ing in cold water mornings the will
can be strengthened and the braîn
stimulated, and a proper diet is of ut
most help in gaining self-control. The
Bible declares that "He who learns
to control himself is greater than he
who conquers and subjects and ex
ploits others by violence, treachery, or
unprincipled cunning.
The importance of the practice of
visualization was again impressed up
oii^ the students. They were told to
try and visualize the growth of their
favorite flower from the seed to its
perfect blooming estate. Mentally to
plant îhe seed, see it germinate; the
little rootlets reaching out for nourish
ment; the shoot peering above the
ground; the gradually unfolding plant,
the bud evolving into the compléta
flower. When this has been accom
plished, it will become comparatively
a simple matter to visualize into tan
gible manifestation the most desirable
economic and social conditions requir
ed for human happiness.
OF COURSE MR. FORD IS RIGHT
Knoxville (Tenn.) Plaindealer.—
Gold is a relic of Julius Caesar, and in
terest is an invention of Satan, says
Henry Ford.
When government needs money for
public improvements, it issued interest
bearing bonds, increasing the national
debt.
That's all wrong, says Ford.
His substitute plan is for government
to issue non-interest-bearing paper
money, with the natural wealth of the
public improvements as security. Mus
cle Shoals for instance. The money
would be gradually retired out of the
profits. And no interest to pay!
Inventor Edison thinks Ford has a
sound idea on the money question. He
comments : The people have an in
stinct which tells them that something
is wrong and that the wrong somehow
centers in money."
Edison raises the question: Just how
much difference is there between e
government bond and paper money?
Discussing the $30.000,000 of gov
ernment financing involved in the pro
posed Muscle Shoals deal, Mr. Edison
points out that a bond issue would be
like this:
Government issues bonds. Brokers
sell them. Then the bonds would be
come negotiaable—as gilt edged as pa
per money, because government is back
of the bonds and the people's confi
dence is back of the government,
j Why not, asks Edison, just issue new
money instead of bonds? Either would
be based on the Muscle Shoals im
provement. The paper money would
be us ^d to pay for'materials and labor
on the job. The whole transaction
would involve only $30,000,000.
_But if the bonds were issued instead
of paper money, interest charges would
swell the $30,000,000 to $66,000,000
by the time the bonds were paid off
an d retired.
What F ord and Edison propose is
not a scheme of fiat money, with noth
ing back of it except a vague govern
ment promise to pay.
In a roundabout way they are ad
vocating a money system based on the
products of human energy, instead of
on gold.
It is not a ne w idea. A few econom
ists have suggested that money should
be sold in stores, the same as merchan
dise.
The re-discount system of the Fed
eral Reserve Banks practically does
that. Reserve notes are issued, backed
y brickl cotton in warehouses
etc.. When these goods are paid for
by buyers, the money issued on them is
retired. f
Ford and Edison would extend this
system to government financing and
using currency instead of bonds, save
the interest.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacturing end.
But co-operatiu» "or diyidends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into ev«ry phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of all, are owned equally and controlled^collectively.
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
The dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In 'order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is r located o n a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highland? of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the couaty Mai «f V— Parish. It is about !5 jb ÎI cï
*ïom the Sabine River, 100 miles from Shreveport, and nearly 300
fesfli New Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
in any section of the United States. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two grear sheds; two large barns;" a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. ,An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In tum this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim» of the Colony is to make its community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
win erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
lite which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
• learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life as does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its nerd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. 5. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations and for logging two ) Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind many
fruits, bernes cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn. «ugar cane, and
for liomeu P 013 ' 0 * 8 ' an<J o:fler cro P s ma y be grown
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
and cured Wee ' P0ta ' 0eS, which were P" 1 in, ° the evaporator house
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
l/UU gallons of pur. sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
An orchard of twenty acres, has been planted, the fruit trees being
t. It is a natural berry country, and many
supplied by the government.
kinds are found growing wild.
liJ\ e tnrT ld ' t T 8 ', ea50n is e, P ec ''?"y adaptable to the raising of
and «I ,k "f gras . 5cs wh , Ich grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
tne year.
Better than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tde, right on the Colony's townsite. A modern brick!
bet" 1 ? ft T I C T C " y ,° f I5 '° 00 brick P" da * ha ° recently
been installedL The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ti^n f'ti' L k groW 1 , . h £ of ,his industry, it is now only a que,
t.on of time when the small frame structures of the lumber day, will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the benefit of the
community, are the following:
waTon°iT rkin !j and , handIe " n! » altin g machinery ; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
olant TT" 8 . T . , harn " 8 - making »hops; printing and publishing
fn J 3 ery ' butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
"a 8 nouT a :r" : PUa ! : e ' : Pool; theaten and a,
M ! . seas °ns other work is done.
rnln - , °k ,h ' S ^ i*"™ accom P iishe d i" the last two years; for the
fil X 5 " T le T ed , h ° W <° co-operate and conquer heir sel
L'r" -!" °t collect ' ve need. .
akes careful study and persistent training to eliminate thé
" " T'*'"' One
pletely The other I 7 * i,h ' heir fellow8 'om
ftv vet' own 1 S , de i lres ,'° l,ve near a co-operative commun
these things The T* k ' '? 1 P " Va,e ownership in
mese things. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre
to t ï" y ,hê CoLv 3 P05 J ,i0n ,0 "I"" 1 bo,h - 11,036 wh ° wish
in another place online
hiiv a Cn r" those who wish to own land mav
advantage,^the Colony^ T^v'" 8 '° c °-°P erative
Colony eniov he A ? ,helr cr °P» with the
advantaoes witk .k -, advan ' a 8es. and many of the educational
s *• 1
The 8 ! P epar,menf . Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville La
Jl- k p ° n ? makcs an y pnvate profit. It is the opoortun
tL I y °, u do >' our Pf to «'end the field of it, influence?
Alten', ,- V° "'"Y C0 ' 0ny ' hou!d get off ,he ,rain «» Stables.
All tram s.op here. You may not be able to purchase a tick£
1 tit, torn L° U 7\ haV V 0 buy L ~-ne. but yl "can £
train We Tee^iTt - ,k """ with ° Ut ge,,!n S off ,he
Notify us when V ! tOVm " riaht ° n ,he ™'road.
notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so.
lions ^as" ^ T" »formation and ask ,uch ques
tion, a, you w„h. Send ,tamp, for reply. We want you to know
clear 8 to vTu T T '° aUe " : ° nt ab ° Ul ""vthin, no,
c,ear to y° u - rature s »ent free on request.
Llano Co-operative Colpny
LEESVILLE, LA.
—Advertisement.
THE LLANO COLONIST
i_Z
* ' ?
/Ml
&
JOIN THE
LLANO 125 CLUB
And Hasten "The Day"
1 OCL 000 Drill a VC wi ^ corapletely finance this colony. It will give us complete
> ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with
which to build our modern city. It will give steady employment to several thousand persons and
lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will permit us to admit people who
are good co-operators and are willing to give their labor and moral support to our undertaking,
but have not the money with which to buy a membership.
Wp W an f 1 OC persons to pledge themselves to furnish 1000 dollars each THIS
YEAR. This will enable us to do in One Year what it would take
several years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with your help we
can do it much sooner.
Furthermore yOU wi ^ SOme ^ ay want t0 ma ^ e YOUR HOME at LLANO, and when
? you come here you will want comfortable quarters with all modern con
veniences. You will desire beautiful streets and parks, and all the things that go to make an ideal
residence city. We will have all these things and more, but money and lots of labor are required
to get them. YOU furnish the cash and WE will do the work.
Pnmyariac ^ave a ^ rea( ^y joined the Club, pledging themselves to pay their
JCVCI ai ^UillldUCb membership fees THIS YEAR. Others will do so in the near
future. Will you be one of them? Here is an opportunity to render material support in bringing
about the Co-operative Commonwealth, and at the same time prepare a home for your family amid
ideal surroundings. This is your opportunity to put the theories of co-operation to the test.
Are you ready to make your contribution to this wonderful movement?
Do not delay; write today
Tell us that you are with us.
THE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
NEWLLANO, via Leesville, La.
;
W
S
THE LLANO GARAGE
By R. S. Kling
Say Bob! Can't you write up some
thing for the monthly paper?
I 'll say I can; but I am wondering if
it will get by the Editor. I'm not a
writer.
Even if we are not specialists in writ
ing we are expected to do our share
in this line as well as all the other
industries.. ' . .
While I am engaged in repairing the
colony autos, I feel as if it were the
concern of all the colonists.
So, if they have an interest in the
work I am assigned to, then I have an
interest in all the other industries of
the Colony.
A co-operator is interested in ev
ery departmertt of the Colony. And
not only in the work he is engaged in
at the time. How different from the
old life back in the capitalistic world!
The mad scramble for jobs; the care
ful nursing of the job for fear some
other worker might get it! Comrades,
I invite you to take a job in the Col
ony, work with us—we are not afraid
of OUR jobs. If you are a more~ef
ficient garage man than I, then take my
job, and welcome. I have nothing to
lose; the Colony would benefit, and,
I am but part of the Colony, I would
as 1 OUI UUl Jjail. , - -
benefit indirectly by the ; hange. «
the meantime,'if some worker should
take my job, I can find something to
do; don't worry—this is ONE BIG |
JOB. The workers have nothing to
lose here, and a world to gain. Every
constructive effore is a gain to the
Colony. While the destructive efforts
are like water on a duck's back. This
is one union where there js. very little (
dissension among the workers.. At
present time good will predominates, j
and the Colony is progressing steadily,
Psychologically, materially, and finan
cailly. As I get this far with my writ
ing, I am wondering how many of those
who read this will be amused and en
tertainel and how many will take it
seriously. I used to be like that—-al
ways suspicious, skeptical. One gets
so much bunk in most of the papers
that he is not to be blamed. Well, if
you are from Missouri, come on! Pay
us a visit. Once you have been here,
you are done with capitalism forever;
you will either stay here or rush home
and straighten out your affairs and
back here you will come.. You will
agree with me that life is worth while
in Newllano.
I wish I were a little child again,
and could start my life here.
Not until you have been here awhile
you realize how much you have
id of life—and opportunity.
missed ot lite—and opportunity.
So much to be done; so much to
learn; so much to unlearn, and so lit
tie time. The hours do not drag here.
It's one big busy bee-hive and we make
every hour count, too Comrade,
when you read this, think ol me as
in another world,
How can one be happy when his
neighbor is starving—or, we will say,
just cold and disheartened—; this is
plenty reason why you are not hap
py. We don't see those things in this
community. Neither do I have to wor
ry about my next week's wages. The
doctor, hospital, and medicine prob
lems do not exist here., When you
have dropped that load off your mind,
ihen you are at last free to become a
new being. It's easy to live as a co
tjperator—just live naturally; enjoy
life ; do your bit, and follow the Golden
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP—this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp end the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked ; then it flows out at the othei
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining ol
white sugan. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
ter—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about 1X4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food vaiue. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and, plain. Try a pound of this and
see what "Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to:
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA.
Rule, instead of trying to beat the oth
er fellow to it. The latter tempera
ment is almost a thing of the past here.
It's like a short circuit in your Ford
timer wires. # Nope I ; You, mental
chinery can'e run in that condition.
o -il
buppost your compression is weak—It
¦ r , ...
mean it you are reserved—if you will
only attend the mental science class,
you will soon "speak right out in
meeting.
Or carbon in one spark plug—I
mean if you have something on your
chest that you are keping to yourself.
If you attend the psychological meet
ings you will soon unload your idea,
and hit hard on all four cylinders. You
don"t want to let the other follows do
all the talking when you have a right
to talk on any subject you choose per
taining to psychology.
Or if your rear end lets go—excuse
my slang—I mean if you lack the in
spiration to go about your work. At
tend a few Agriculture meetings and
you will be full of enthusiasm.
Suppose the coils are weak, and you
lack the pep. Comrade Martin's band,
orchestra, or singing classes will soon
fix you up; there is more music here
than in any other community of its
size on earth.
Get your cars repaired at the Llano
Garage; once you get your engine
Ü-» J"" O'-«- JVM 1 C115111V.
yo j" ^ on * want , t0 ;
hear her knock, knock, knock, or mis
fire any more,
We can fix your car alright. But
you will have to make the alteration
on your own mental machine yourself.
Don't kid yourself into thinking you
don't need repairs. A smooth, perfect- j
Irunning motor is a rare article. We !
have the equipment for the motor re
the|pairs; also the environment necessary
for the alterations of the mental ma
chine.
1
You know what happens when the
carburetor has too rich a mixture. Too
much fuel is bad. We are studying
scientific eating, as well as a great
many other things to better ourselves.
The comrades are paying more at
tention to understanding themselves
than they are to their automobiles,
which are left to my care.
Well, comrades, you can bank on
us to get to our destination; we are
are on the right road.
CATHOLIC CHURCH
DEFENDS COAL MINERS
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. - Through the social
action dep.,,men, of the National
Catholic Welfare Council the Catholic
church in the United States is tàkine
a f irm stand in def r ..
a firm stand in defense of the riehts
0 f ^ coa j m i ners j n t ^ e j- 1
the f oal operators are now driving to
wart j a trag j c c U max '
J în a fashjon eyen more co ; cuous
| t h an the defense of the steel workers'
! cause> d uring the stee , strjke ^
Interchurch World movement of the
Protestant churches, the spokesman of
the older church are calling attention
to the fact that the wrongs inflicted
upon the coal miners and their fami
lies are wrongs against American civ
llization, and that these wrongs are so,
cially intolerable.
PROTESTANTS PROTEST
AMERICAN IMPERIALISM
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Imperialism in La
tin America has received a heavy blow
at the hands of the Protestant churches
in the United States, in the form of a
strong recommendation" by the Fed
eral Council o{ Churches of Christ
in America, the Home Mission Coun
cil and the Committee on Co-operation
in Latin America, to the senate com
mittee which has been preparing a re
port on American occupation of Haiti
and the Dominican Republic.
The church organizations ask that
complete administrative independ
ence be established in Haiti and Santo
Domingo as soon as possible," on the
ground that moral and humanitarian,
rather than political and financial, con
siderations should govern our national
». j l " , -
Weak ? r , pe0ples :
This diplomatically worded protest
fusTnfT' T tu' ^° Wing tHe re "
sal of President Harding to give to
the senate, in answer to its request, the
Gen lohn °H R T? 't
A ¦ j ? usse11 ' wh °m he has.
K 0nZed t0 ,t ak ®. su W e ®« control of
bothcivil and military officials in the
republics who are under American con
trol.
HELP STARVING RUSSIANS
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — From his home
in
(—, »»wjuv in
1 erre Haute, Ind., Eugene V. Debs hasN
issued a stirring appeal to everty Am
erican worker to aid the Russian fa
mine relief. The appeal, made public
through the Friends of Soviet Russia,
calls upon everyone to give to the
starving in Russia the bread we hold
in our hands."
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on j^nother page. Here is the opoor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page !)
new whee , f<Jr another new antJ
ma-;^^ and Von Scio were making
garden tools. Kling was repairing the
r .1 ¦ •• • „ f „
car of the Czarina, as it is soon to
make a long trip south on an exploring
trip for new equipment for the power
plant. Kapotsy was cutting pipe and
later was met at the club house anl
kindergarten finishing up the plumbing
for the new kitchen. Wobler was mak
ing the woodwork for the sink, Van
Nuland, Sanders, Jaques, Loutrell and
Belohradsky were sawing lumber and
wood. Later I caught sight of Beloh
radsky off this job puttig in a galvan
ized iron lining to the sink that Wobler
made. Reeves, Downs, Beavers and
Nash were met at the new houses just
west of the shops, building brick chim
neys, while Roede, the harness-maker,
I surprised off his job, tacking shingles
on one of the new houses. Also Gault
was there and Matz was laying a new
oak floor in it. Oak floors! Some
class, eh? At the boiler, Landrum was
firing, Scharrer and Merrel were un
loading wood at the boiler, and Hink
ley was using the one man wood saw
to good advantage. Williams, Lee,
Rechsteiner, Langridge and Walter L.
I £ £ 1 , . ,
finishing the setting of the lower raf
" '"«J" 6 £
, ... ,
! ng tertlllzer at ot her places and haul- j
.. lng . to the "*"7' and they will bring,
ters. From the roof garden I saw De- ,
Boer and Coleman loading fertilizer at j
the ne w compost pile, and later metii°b.
them distributing the same at the gar-,
den. Smock and Jones each were load- 1
back a load of fuel in the evening after
the day's work is done, spent in clean
ing land. I went to the laundry where
Ole was plugging up the old boiler
and Beavers was getting ready to fire
up. Mrs. Beavers, Kemp, Cox, Mc
Connell were busy mending and look
ing after the newly-laundered clothes.
In the print shop Newman, Buck, Glee
ser, Cantrell, Rose Belohradsky and
Mrs. Cantrell were busy getting out
the Colonist for the mail. Back over
to the planing mill I surprised H. Bell
planing down some peanuts for peanut
butter—well, I can't swear to this part
of it; but I know he was using a ma
chine where peanuts went in and la
ter came out as butter. I passed thru
the hotel and found Mother Crowford,
Mrs. Ferree, Mrs. Babb and Mrs. Syn
oground busy in the kitchen, Dad
Brou ^ton splitting wood and Mrs Mer
' l ® er work- 0ver at the scl,oo!
! j, tW ° Martlns were bus y with the
,kiddoos, imparting knowledge to our
, - ~ ~
|y° un 8 hopefuls. At the garden Dad
""""
Thurman was taking up some more
cabbage plants to reset down with the
large field of cabbage already growing.
Babb and Benton were planting egg
plant and pepper seeds at the hot bed
while Dad Shutt was digging out a big j
root that was in the way of the tiling j
ditch. Un crossing the garden towards
the barn, I walked past onions, collard,
mustard, strawberries (in bloom), cab
bage, carrots, beets, lettuce, turnips,
and rutabagas and more cabbages.
Near the barn I saw Turnidge plowing
a piece of ground where he and Cole
man think Irish potatoes will grow in
great quantities without having to go
to the trouble of even planting seed!
At least they both say it's a natural
place for potatoes to grow and what
naturally grows ought not to have to
be planted. John Brostrom was putting
in a floor in a stall for one of the mules
but I don't think it was oak. Up at
the granary Paton was sorting peanut
seed. Over at the kindergarten I ran
on to Kapotsy again and found Myrtle
Kemp with her large family of kiddoos
who always hail me, some calling me
by one name, others by. other names—
of course none of them are bad names
.then back to the big shed. Vernon
and Siemens were unloading logs haul
ed in by a F ordson, Lindsey getting
putting the bread car in from his Lees
ville trip. At the store I met Baldwin
who had returned from Leesville, where
be had . del ! vered the milk, and Dad
motors,'
rvovt' fo, ^ n ,v'°"
Ï F° rd pla °e an d Valek just
Crawford driving his "hav
Ja - Ck and RufuS ' Was ioaded bar
reis and water'pipe. Of course I sot
called down for running off my fob
^ W8S Wd to dictate le «-'for
the rest of the day and go to al-ebra
and agriculture classes, where f nod
ded off to sleep as all dull students
will. That's why the cocks are now
'crowing while I write this at 4 a.m.
and I am going to sleep. They say
there is no rest for the wicked, and I
begin to believe it. Well, to-day (af
ter day-light), I think I will run off
with the kids and see the farm and not
— ovv me 1 a 1111 ctilU IlOl
let the bosses see me until it is too late
to work. Good night.
v ¥ v *
Saturday, March 18. — Once again
I slipped it over on my bosses. I was
collared for an hour or so getting office
work done, but at the first opportun
ity I jumped the job, too to the woods,
and the farm, and for the rest of the
day nature and I were closely related.
The wild pansies and violets are in
bloom and the vines that climb the
trees, the flowering shrubs and trees
make this particular day blossom and
bloom, and I am glad I am in it. On
! my way out to the farm, I met Babb
with a team and disc, coming into the
garden to prepare for school garden,
where he and Benton have been con
ducting their experiment in drainage.
As I passed up the road running west
of the hotel, I met Pete Kemp with a
big load of wood drawn by his six
mule team, going to the boiler. As I
passed the new garden where Messen
ger and Paton soon expect to live, I
saw Messenger and Solomone working
in the expected-to-be tomato patch,
and it looks fine, too. Farther along
the road I met Siemens and Vernon
bringing in a load of logs with one of
the Fordsons, and as I reached the
new farm cabin, Daniel was seen pre
paring the noon-day meal for the fel
lows who are clearing land. In the
field just north of the Ford ranch are
part of the stumps pulled. Here I saw
Fred Anderson dislodging more stumps
and Waters is just finishing the job of
harrowing the whole piece of plowed
ground. Out^west of the Ford place
the fellows have pulled all the stumps
from about 50 acres. Here the chil
dren from the school had been at work
picking up pine knots, sticks, roots and
such material. They piled them
piles and the wood wagons will take ,
them to the boilers for fuel. The 1
youngsters were finished with their job !
when T arrived b,,r I.in,W nil.
-
'"«•
l ° es
when I arrived, but Lindsey was plow
' n 8> us 'ng the other Fordson on the
while Ed. Merrill, Jones, Tackett,
Krug, and Phillips were filling the holes
? nd getting the land ready for plow
Here we will plant sweet pota
peanuts and sorghum. Also
Jones, Waters, and Daniel have stack
ed out a patch for watermelons, which
they expect to grow as big as cook
stoves! Having missed the other kids,
I went to the swimming pool; there
found the bunch. It is strange how
we kids know how to find each other.
Here we ate dinner, swam, and had a
good time. At the dairy Comrade Rowe
Green, Baldwin and Mrs. Baldwin were
busy as usual. Earl has his hands full
looking after the hew pig families. One
old mother hog played a real hog's
part aand presented a family of 13
dandy red pigs for Rowe to look af
ter. West of the hog ranch was Dad
Lloyd, Buhre and C. Anderson also
clearing land and they have a large
acreage cleared and partly plowed.
Here the hog feed will be raised and
pastures built up. Comrade Smock,
with a team is also on this job. I
remained hid until danciing school
time, and, after the dance I crawled
home without a single cross word from
the bosses. Well, I'm safe until Mon
™
« a y, As Ole, Loutrell and I will take
*
a big trip to-morrow,
Sunday, March 19. — What is the
use of telling what happened here to
day? Loutrell, Ole and I drove nearly
j 350 miles into the southern part of the
j State, looking at boilers and electric
plants. Yes-, we were all day and all
night doing the job, and I haven't been
able to arouse myself enough to get the
real Sunday at the Colony, so i . will
answer some questions asked by a
comrade in North Dakota. I will try
to answer all your questions in a way
that others might understand, too. So
here goes. We have about 250 to 300
people here now and all those who have
not been here one year are on proba
tion. It is a nice thing to say that so
far no one has been put out of the
Colony at the end of the probation
period. Of course, there are people
who come and go. But I can safely
say that their only reason for going
is always personal, and thru no fault
in the ideals of the Colony. Those who
go and wish to withdraw from the Col
ony before their first year is up are
given land for their money if they wish
— 1Ilulroj , „ lney Wlsn
it, or they receive stock in the Colony
company. Very few people who stay
here a year ever leave, and if they do,
they always lopg to get back
a ™ ssr
operate with us, is never given hi>
i . - glven his
money back. Why should they? When
k C ,T e here il is . t0 e'ther help us
to build a co-operative, commonwealth
or to destroy it. The first doesn't
want his money back and the latter
doesn t deserve it. But the main
son that we could never succeed by of-.
ferme a nmrnnm An »...'u— \vr
fering a premium on quitters. We try
never to let a trouble-maker get into
our Colony, and we never take then
money if we know they are such. Trou
ble is the last thing we are looking for.
s to trouble among our membership,
we don t have any now. Trouble-mak
ers eliminate themselves. Their uncal
led-for methods always force them .out,
and as to calling in the authorities, we
don t need them. Seven years of Col
ony hfe and I have never seen a fist
right among the colonists; we never
had a jail, a policeman or a peace of
ficer. We are co-operators and are not
looking for trouble of any kind. Out
side, people come and ëhjoy our social
and educational life, free, and they re
spect our community and our wishes
as to behavior. We have almost abol
ished the wage system. We pay just
enough cash allowance to permit one
to buy his meals at the hotel or grub
stake himself at home. All other ne
cessities are free. Our medium of
V ". V uur medium of ex
change is Colony tickets printed at the
Colony print shop. We work eight
hours a day; but of course many work
longer. It is pow past 1 p.m. and I am
still on the job'since morning. But,
of course, this isn't work. I am only
amusing myself. When one is doing
what he wishes to do, it is not work
änd he nevér couhts the hours. We
want to co-operate and make it a suc
cess. Who said hours? The Colony is
really governed by a system of ap
pointed manager and appointed fore
men under him. The board of direct
ors is elected once a year and the board
selects the general manager, who in
turn selects the persons under his di
rection. Of course, he is responsible
to the colonists for the Colony# suc
cess and is open to recall at any time.
In fact, he would resign at any time the
membership should wish it. Say! An
official job in here is a real job and
no official of this place is crazy about
his job. There is always room for good
men and women, and you can get all
the responsibility you want if you will
render the service. Our educational
system is the best and broadest ever.
We are all students and all teachers.
And we learn every day, at that. We
are under the same tax system all oth
er property-owners are; only our col
on y tax is P a 'd by the company as a
whole, instead of the individual. No,
we are not afraid of the future. We
know the world must have a solution
know the world must have a solution
for its industrial and social problem.
We believe we are right and that the
right will win. We are not trying to
succeed thru competitive methods in
trade; we are a producing concern
and will stay out of profit-making in
every way we can. That's why we or
ganized the "Dollar-Up Club." If there
is a law of compensation, we cannot
afford to barter and fight; we must
produce and consume and render ser
vice. Now, don't think we are imprac
tical ; we know what MUST BE DONE
and we do what we have to do, even
tho we hate it! You can keep us out
of competition if you will, and you can
help us to show the world that co-op
eration is the right way for humans to
live; you can help to establish and
maintain the Brotherhood of Man; and
you alone will have to answer for your
self. Will you do it, or wiH you just
tremble and shake and speculate? It
is up to the workers of the world to do
the job. Are you willing to do your
share ?
Monday, March 20. — The Cryer
family is now in the Colony. Dan has
been four years getting here, but we
feel sure he knows what he is about
and will stay. You see, Dan was rais
ed around here and knows what co-op
eration means; he also knows what we
have done. Our ups and downs he is
acquainted with; and he knows we are
here to succeed, and he and his family
are here to help us do it. He is the
first close neighbor to come in; but,
say! lots of them want to join! But
few understand our problem and we
are sure there are few of them really
re .ady for co-operation. Mrs.
C
2
as they may desire. Work on the roof
garden and temporary houses is being
rushed. Farming and gardening is hav
ing its inning for the weather is just
the best ever. And we are enjoying
" lce "esh vegetables from the gar
• e T ery y ' y ' the scflo °l cafe
"j haS s , tarted and all the school
and valuable industry^tartld.^ne thlt
will mean our clothes in the near fu
ture. Miss Cryer is going To thldat
to learn dairying in all its phases and
will become a teacher in this special
line for our school. Every one who
desires to be a teacher here should spe
cialize and become a really efficient'fn
worker, as well as a teacher. Dan is
a farmer and the two boys will no
doubt take up some useful line of work
kiddoos and some grown-ups are now
eating at the old club house. It
prepara ' lon of meals. Mrs. Green
looks after thf» lmnc#» __ i •
kip .0 .h, ho ,.i,
over-crowed for months. This will
give Mother Crawford and her crew
a lift as well as the children's food
will be made more adapted to their
growing needs. Mrs. Martin is instruc
tor and has several students under her
direction for a two weeks' period in the
¦ ? j f L r t î le house cIea nin g and is
assisted by the juvenile cooks. A re
ception to Mother Blair and a card
shower to Comrade Burton was a real
Colony affair at the hotel to-night and
we all did justice to the occasion both
m amusing and in being amused. This
¦s he busiest place on earth. You do
not believe it? Well, just come and
see. Comrade Clowe, a world-travel
er of much co-operative experience
is here here on a visit from S. A.
« «
Tuesday, March 21. - Those brick
masons we are looking for haven't
showed up or even written. Is it pos
sible that there are no idle brick ma
sons am ° ng our co-operative brethren?
Well, comrades, we have a city to
build, and a new world to construct,
f n . , we sincerely hope some of ypu
nek masons have the proper slant on
lue to wish to help construct both. A
nice response is coming to our
clubs, the "125 Club" antU "n„i
Up Club." There will be a cot
run each week in the Colonist giving
the names of thé members to each
c)ub. Of course, the ''Dollar-Up Club"
list will change each month. Maybe
you did not know that our savings
were caught in a bank closing some
two months ago? Well, we got caught,
but are now over the pressure; it will
somewhat cramp us until after the May
payment, so we want you to do all you
can to help us in raising the $24,000
for this years land payment. We are
convinced that the " 125 - Club" will
have a full membership by Janua/Jr 1st»*
but we must rustle to raise enough cash
for this year's payment in May. just
remember this, when we pay this mon
ey over it gives us clear title to 4000
acres more land, which will make our
holdings reach about 9000 acres. Yes
terlay's New Orlean's "Item" printed
a story about'a man who shot himself
in the leg in order to get a clean bed
and food to eat: also the same paper
is printing a "jobs wanted" adv. free
for ex-service men and told of the
street being blocked by the rush of
men to get their want ads in the, paper.
Now just think what might happen if
all persons who/ wanted jobs would
print their names in the dailies. We
soon learn of the terrible condition our
free American citizenship is in. Then
something might happen. Suppose all
this enemployel army should be turned
into useful nrodur.ers and wnA „„ tk»
into useful producers and work on the
co-operative basis, help each other and
all who would work with them unself
ishly and in harmony, each trying to
to render the best servicçjie could to
the benefit of all? Can you imagine
what would happen? Well it can be
done and it will have to be done if
the human race expects to progress.
Now we are doing this and I say to
you: Is it any wonder, even some of
our comrades can't understand what
we are doing? We have taken a step
far ahead of the rest of the world of
greed, selfishness and competition. Is
it any wonder we have people who can
not understand, doing all they can to
tear down our colony. Now the strange
part of it is that these are our com
rades too. But they are not to blame.
They have fought capitalism until they
can't stop fighting and they naturally
fight anything that doesn't just agree
with their, notions. We are glad that
they are giving us such wonderfully
cheap advertising. They keep away
from us, those who are suspicious and
afraid and drive towards us those who
will co-operate for a common cause.
cause.
Yes, we at last have harmony here, and
we wani those who can forget self and
who can work in the interests of all.
Now is the time for you to help, even
tho you can t come now. Rustle us
a fe w new subscribers to our publica
tins, distribute our literature to those
who might become interested in co
operation; take out an instalment
membership; buy land or take a com
pletely paid-up membership. Yes, now
n r. to , ^ lp " J° in the "Dollar
p Club and keep us doing construc
tive work along the lines of your ideals.
î * l «1— uuw yuur laeais,
i*.Ü S ST t
"DoHa^Up°CI ^ ° ash - The
tKn u l ls a donatlon from
m^tJ l ° j Uppor î us
| an d buildToÏ* m ™"' ? l ° clear
Uton't , ' , WJthout having to
DP Ht' ° P V ce g , oods t0 se " on a com
iL thaf T ? ° U \ living " Now
' ant * get t!le habit. The ,
b.,'il f P f l COmm ? Wealth must be
of h I """a* a " d by lhe hands
* k!!?u_ enU A . re ï ou to be
a builder, or just a looker-on ? It will
be built with or without you, but you
can do your bit and hasten the day.
Are you with us or against us—and
for how much?
CO-OPERATIVE PURCHAS
ISG SAVES MONER
otfcfc'h ôX"'ir chase
'har, $12.00 was saved Ä ' m ° r<ï
— ^ D ™ ^ buyers '
diaï up' farm agent - Concor
a pansh Pecan and Satsuma orange
tree w ere distributed as well as a num
oer or rose bushes.
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLÄHR, Nature Cure
Author, says : #
"Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
question irom the Henry George
viewpoint. I felt that there was some
thing, wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the little things over
don't W S v le ev f ry da y that we
1 , See " . " are the first one who
has harmonized the land problem and
Marx." 86 <West,0n - H enry George and
cu lt ™ 6 ' Ci0t , hb0und ™lume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
rency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
the llano~publications
Leesville, La.
AN INVITATION
If you receive a sample copy of this
paper, it is an invitation to you to sub
scribe. Some friend of yours has ask
ed us to send it.
Sample trial subscription is ten cents
a month. Regujar subscription is
$1.50 a year
A WEEKLY MESSENGER FROM TîiE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
t; '
The Llan
MEMBER THE FEDERATED PRESS
co-operation that
be formed to
Llano
Vol. I.
PUBLISHED AT LLANO COLONY. LEESVILLE LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, APRIL 8. 1922.
No. 50.
The Colony Diary
Bçing .a Daily Report of Colony Life ai Llano.
Wednesday, March 29. — Old Jup.
seems inclined to weep upon us just
•enough each day to make it hard for
¦the farmers to get their early crops in,
but he can't discourage this crew; be
cause there are so many buildings to
put up, lumber to prepare, and wood
4o cut and split, that while the farmers
-are resting they join the industrial
crews \and work, anyway. May Day
is just a month off and we should like
to have our roof garden finished by
that time. Just think of a hard wood
floor 80 x 80 ft. square! The wall on
the west end is bricked up solid; on
ihe east it is bricked up eight ft, with
windows set in and two feet of screen
Tunning to the ceiling. On the north
side the brick runs up four feet; the
same on the south wall. Thé roof is
Jiipped and extends out 5 ft. all around
-the building. It is a beautiful building
¦and will be nicely finished. Our build
ers can justly be proud of their work.
Besides a dance hall, it will be used for
-a gymnasium, possibly house the sew
ing room for a time. And I hear some
of the fellows saying: 'Gee, won't it
be a dandy place to carry a cot and
sleep there this summer? Those who
remember the good ball team we had
-at Llano California, can begin to
straighten up again, for we have a fine
.bunch of ball timber here now and
the fellows are practicing every even
ing. We have picked out a dandy ball
ground west of the school house on the
park 40 acres, and will ^oon have it
. ready for use. Also we expect to build
a cinder path athletic track clear
around the ball field. May Day is
¦coming and we wish more of you could
ibe here to celebrate with us. The
abridge on the highway to Leesville is
almost finished and soon we shall have
a good road into that town, which will
be of great benefit to us. Soon the
brick crew will be at work on the ma
chinery building, and after that we ex
pect to start work on the first unit to
the hotel or community home. This
summer we expect to build a new
school buijding and if we can get a
man to teach the children how to do
it, the youngsters will lay up the brick
and do the whole job of building. That
is real education, and of the right kind.
How, some of you brick masons that
like to teach others, here is your op
portunity to do something worth talk
ing about. Who speaks first? Do it
now and let us plan for you and the
job. Now, these äre just a few of the
jobs we expect to do this summer. Sev
eral of the fellows are talking of or
ganizing volunteer crews to put in ex
tra time and build private residences
¦(of brick) in tjie evenings. This gang
down here is apt to do almost anything
3 can-tell you that. Enough for this
time about the future. The mandolin,
band, orchestra, and choral practice
Vound up a very husy day. One of
John Hoovér's boys arrived this p.m.
îo make his home with "Dad."
Thursday, March 30. — The sea
son is being rushed and Aprilshow
•ers keep the men dodging out to work
on the buildings and wood piles and
back into the big shed, while old "Jup"
weeps. Well, it is a nice warm day
and the showers help the grass to grow
and what crops are in are being help
ed. The shingle mill is going on reg
ular schedule, and Comrade Jaques
seems to have a life-time job ahead
of him in making shingles for all our
proposed buildings. Comrade Kunz,
Mrs_ Gaddis and H. Bell are giving
some extra time to baking: Joe is laid
up and these comrades are doing his
work until Joe is up and out again.
Again it shows how completely our
¦work days are filled. We don't have
many understudies, and some of us
don't dare to take time to get crippled
or laid up. The new photo studio is
about finished and the Busick family
. will move into the house now being
¦occupied by Comrade England and the
•studio. Wobter, Oakley and one of
the Cryer boys are installing new
equipment at the planing mill. A let
ter from Comrade Hastings of Okla
homa tells us he will soon ship some
more machinery and himself to our
land of promise. We ned him to do
some surveying and right soon. A
friend says, "I like your main idea, but
I believe there are some things ithat I
¦wouldn't agree with you,upon." Gee!
jThe easiest thing in the world is to
finds points upon which to disagree, es
pecially things that are not right. Now,
one of our requirements is to find the
things that are right and to help over
come those things that are at fault.
Our,ideal is right and it is up to us to
all join together and work it out. It
is impossible for two people to abso
lutely agree upon-all things; so you
can see what it means for a whole
community to try it. Of course, we
don't like many things here, but we
don't growl or fuss about it; we just
pull off our coats, roll up our sleeves,
and set about doing the best we can
And let me give you a tip: I am the
oldest member here in the Colony, and
I want you to know that this bunch of
people are doing, and have been doing,
more than you can believe was possi
ble for them to do. I know they have
done their best and it is an unwise per
son who comes here and wants to
know "why we haven't done this or
that." It doesn't hurt our feelings, but
it casts a reflection that we haven't
on the job as we should have been.
Our greatest progress has been in gain
ing ownership to our land, lhve stock,
buildings, machinery and tools, and the
psychological progress we have made.
We have learned to co-operate after
several years of trying and that in it
self has cost us much; but it is well
worth all it cost. The little defects are
over-shadowed by the great cause and
the true co-operator helps to construct,
while the destructionist tries to magni
fy our short-comings. Constructive
methods alone will build the new co
operative commonwealth. A new
bunch of Colony chicks arrived at my
house this a.m., and I once more be
gin to feel like an old hen. The phy
chological meeting closed this day with
a good attendance and an evening well
spent. The Esperanto class was held
at the school house as usual from 6:30
to 7:30; we then went to the hotel
and discussed many things useful to
the Colony at the psychological meet
ing from 7:30 to 9:00 p.m.
* * * *
Friday, March 31. — Some of the
clearing and farm crews are building
a road leading out to the new farm
land near the Ford ranch; Jones, Mar
chick, Phillips, Waters and Hinkley are
on this job. Fred Anderson is at his
steady job of removing stumps from the
new fields. Comrade Stave, from Cal
ifornia arrived last night and is looking
over the place with Thurman. ^~™
rade Clowe just left the office after
putting his name on the "125-CLUB"
list and asserting himself as ready to
join us on a complete co-operative ba
sis. A bundle of books from Thos. H.
Troy, .of Colorado, just arrived, as did
a bundle of rhubarb roots from Adams
and Son, Arkansas, and a nice can of
candied honey from my old friend D.
N. Johnson, of Colo. Thanks to ' you
all, our friends, we will make good
of your contributions. Kemp,
Com
Tackett and Busick are sawing and
splitting wood for the big boiler which
Vernon is still firing. The getting out
of lumber for the roof garden, making
and bundling shingles and turning han
dles are the principal jobs at the mill;
Jaques, Ole, Cryer, Wobler, Rech
steiner, and Oakley are busy on this
job, while Lee, Langridge and Waltei
Langridge are working on the roof gar
den roof. Downs, W. Beavers and
Scharrer have finished the chimney
arid are starting the last side to the
same building. The brick men are
nearly ready for another job. Sanders,
Siemens and Kling are reparing cars
and tractors and expect in a few days
to put all three tractors to work again.
The sun is out and shifting beautifully
and irj about two more days plowing
will begin again— providing the clouds
will not again weep upon us. Nash,
Van., Reeves, and Matz are finishing
up another small house right east of
the Gaults and will soon have it ready
to use. Gault, BeBoer, and Coleman
are now filling another platform for
fertilizer and if the weather stays good
the cane ground will be fertilized and
planted in a few days. Denver Cryer
and S. Merrel are cutting wood in the
timber; Krug and E. ft^errill are help
ing John Hoover on the fence building
work and Dan Cryer is running the
roustabout wagon.. Owing to the re
(Continued on page 8)
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE WE'RE GOING
By A. E. Clark ..
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way,
To sell ourselves in bondage, in the same
old way;
There's sure to be a hot time, on collection
day—
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way. «
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way.
Bonds cost four for one to settle, the wise
men say.
Why worry? As oiy children will have the
debts to pay?
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way.
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way.
Grafters spend their time a-scheeming the
live long day.
The little wages that we get just how to take
away—
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way.
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way.
Just a bare scant living is fully enough
to pay
Us Henry Dubs in wages while on this earth
we. stay—
We don't know where we're going, but we're
on our way.
I
'
ANOTHER BOCK WANTED
FOR THE LLANO LIBRARY
Has anyone a copy of "The History
of the Warfare of Science with The'
ology" by Andrew D. White, which he
does not need? If so, and he will send
it to the Llano Colony, he will earn
the thanks of the Colony as a whole
and the undying gratitude of certain
individuals. There is probably a larg
er percentage of readers in Llano than
in any other community of the same
size in the world; as reading is the
most popular indoor sport of about
nin e -tenths of the entire population.
Any book sent to the library will be
a welcome gift, but the one mentioned
will be most acceptable at the present
time. !
RAIN AND MORE RAIN
IN VERNON PARISH
If there is any section of the country
that is in need of rain water, it may be
possible to secure a supply here, as
there is a surplus of that commodity
in this locality. The generous rain
fall of the past week has brought ^the
wildflowers out in profusion and turn
ed the fields and woods into one great
flower garden. But it is seriously in
terfering with the work of the farmers
and planting will be badly delayed as
a consequence. Still more rain is to
come, as the following will show:
Mch. 28—max. 78, min. 58
Mch. 29—max. 78, min. 61
Hch. 30—max. 74, min. 59
Mch. 31—max. 74, min. 52
Apr. 1—max. 71, min. 42
Apr. 2—max. 71, min. 49
Apr. 3—max. 77, min. 58
.20 inch, rain fell on Mch. 28th ;
.08 inch, on Mch 29th; and .50 inch,
on Mch. 30th.
Indications are for unsettled showery
weather during the first part of the
week, and generally fair thereafter,
with normal temperature.
THE EIGHT HOUR LAW
IN THE GERMAN REPUBLIC
(By -The Federated Press)
Amsterdam.—German workers rare
ly put in more than 48 hours a week,
being opposed to the principle of over
time, even with extra pay, the Interna
tional Federation of Trade Unions an
nounces. after inquiring into the charge
that in Germany the eight-hour day is
not actually applied.
A GALA NIGHT AT
THE DIXIE PRIDE
Harry Bell, the manager of the New
llano Theater, certainly did himself
proud with the splendid program pro
vided by him for the colonists and
friends on the night of April 2. It was
the best progr .m in many months,"the
performers excelling all their former
offerings.
The Junior Orchestra, 'of course,
started the entertainment in splendid
form and encored with a melody of
rare sweetness and power. The Miss
is Erma and Helen Tiede sang* the
'Bluebird," accompanied on the piano
by Mrs. 'Montrose. As instrumental
trio, Mr. Martinson the guitar and Miss
Margaret Seelye and Arthur Montrose
both on violins, did good execution.
By request Mr. Montrose sang "Lou
isiana is my Home," xcompanied in
strumentally by Mrs. Montrose and Ar
thur. Then the wonderful Llano
quartette" in thé persons of Mr. and
Mrs. Beaver, son Bill Beaver and Mrs.
Dougherty, poured forth their hearts
in \ most enchanting song. Mr. W.
Smock impersonated a "cullud lady"
and a "cullud gemmen" in a very ef
feëtive manner, and his son, Freddie,
recited a very humorous piece of poe
try. Comrade Billie DeBoer's clarinet
solo was rendered in perfection, as he
does everything that he takes in hand.
Comrade W. Jaques gave an interest
ing declamation in his well-known
forceful manner, and scored a hit, as
usual. Llano Quartette No. 2, compos
ed of Mr. and Mrs. Gaddis, Mrs. Shar
rer arid Mr. Lindsey, sang an old favor
ite of "ye editor," translated from the
German, and as if by magic appeared
the old water-mill, with its huge wheel ;
the air was redolent with the perfume
of flowers and the balm of the fir tree.
The lark was singing her matin song,
and I was bathing my tired feet in the
cool water of the brook after a hike
through the woods. But it was all a
'dream. The song was finished and the
Juvenile Orchestra completed the even
ing's entertainment. Thanks to all the
performers for the delightful treat.
The man who loses his temper is in
the position of admitting to all who
witness his exhibitions that he is not
master of himself. A loss of temper
means loss of self-control. No man
can enjoy the luxury of losii\K his tem
per regularly and enjoy long %fe. Nei
ther can such a man win the loving
loyalty of his associates.
a
LLANO "DOLLAR-UP CLUB"
PRESIDENT HEARD FROM
Frank Gayer, president and orig
ator of the LLANO DOLLAR-UP
CLUB, in sending in his April donation
for the co-operative cause, tells us why
he wanted to start the club which has
now become a thing of energy and
power in the co-operative movement.
Here are Frank's reasons:
Dear Comrade:—In reply to yours,
I will state a few of my reasons for
urging on this DOLLAR-UP CLUB.
1. To make it a national—yes, in
ternational movement.
2. To unite all progressive thinking
people along one line, the building of
the Co-operative Commonwealth—not
with our mouths, but with our brains
and hands.
3. To make it possible for everyone
in sympathy to help, without being
compelled to buy one thousand dollars
of stock. Reason: Perhaps he lacks
that thousand.
4. To encourage and develop future
stock-holders out of this club; this I
am sure will be a great stimulus.
5. To place hundreds, perhaps thou
sands, of names and addresses on the
Colony subscription list. Each mem
I ber being eager to know how his dollar
' is working.
6. To attract the attention of people
of idealistic mind, such as artists, pro
fessional men, writers, teachers, bus
iness meii, yes, even some of our think
ing capitalist friends.
7. To bring home to some doubting
Thomas (Socialists, too), that this is
a self-propelling, self-expanding, self
Jjropagating force; and if not hindered
from within or without must ultimately
make a history for itself.
8. To give all progressives a chance
for expression along a very practical
lines. Let us bear in mind that polit
ical action alone is useless.
9. To bring together many people
who are willing to addpt as their social
standard the golden rule.
10. To make room for comrades
with little or no financial means in the
Colony and allow them to function as
they should. I consider a poor man
on the average, of greater benefit to
society, because he gives more and
takes less. That is why he is poor.
Friends and comrades, speed up the
DOLLAR-UP CLUB.
Frank Gayer.
Here are the Dollar-Up Club mem
bers who have paid up for April :
THE "DOLLAR-UP CLUB"
Frank Gayer $1.00
Mrs. Rose B. Blair $1.00
L. L. Rhodes $1.00
A. C. McKinley $1.00
W.E.Patterson $1.00
Augustus Robinson $1.00
Mrs. L. Dillman $1.00
William Andraska $1.00
Mrs. Blanche W. Briggs $5.00
Spare your cash; we'll spare our
time"—together we'll build the Co-op
erative Commonwealth.
THE NEW REFRIGERATOR
Mrs Crawford who manages the ho
tel at the Colony was agreeably surpris
ed last week when the' much needed
new refrigerator was installed in the
kitchen. It took four husky men to
handle this the latest product of the
handiwork of the Llano colonists. In
finish and workmanship it will compare
with anything that is offered on the
market to day, it is the very latest word
in refrigerator manufacture and is a
striking example of co-operation. Com
rade Matz is justly proud of the work
of his hands and states that the cost
to the Colony for the refrigerator was
but a few dollars. It is 6 x 6 wide,
4x6 high, 2x7 deep. There are
two doors in front and two at the side,
also a large compartment for ice that
will hold 250 pounds of ice. It is all
zinc lined with air chambers of one and
a half inch. This is an example of the
versatility of the Colony as well as the
skill of Comrade Matz.
The three richest men in the world
are all in America and are over 80
of
years
age.
TWO MORE PROMISES FOR *
LLANO 125 CLUB
Two more co-operators are now
members of the LLANO 125 CLUB,
they having promised to put in $1,000
each this year to build the Llano co~
perative commonwealth. This makes
twelve members for the club, leaving
101 more, vacancies still to be filled.
Many more are intending to join later,
and they will be reported in very soon.
The two new ones this week are:
John Stave of California, and V. C.
Clowe from South America.
See the announcement about the
LLANO 125 CLUB on page eight.
THE "125-CLUB"
Tom L. Potts
A. B. Dawley
W. G. Dunegan
Harry C. Hall
D, W, Van Sçhojch
John Winters
J.B.Mars ¦
Robert Wurfer
Homer Clark.
Bert Busic
V. C. Clowe
John Stave
is
POLITICAL DEAD DUCKS
RESPONSIBLE FOR ADOPTION
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — "That roll call ought
to* be good for a dozen seats, at least,
Hiram ! "
It Was Senator La Follette who "call
ed out this cheery observation to Sen
ator Johnson, during the slaughter of
amendments to the four-power treaty
on the senate floor, before the treaty
was finally ratified.
Johnson, whose seat in the senate
was probably saved by his fight against
this treaty, knew, as La Follette knew,
that a large number of senators whose
terms expire in 1923 and 1925, and
who voted down these amendments
and ratified the treaty, cast these votes
at the sacrifice of their political fu
tures.
Williams, Mississippi, veteran Demo
crat, treaty supporter, will not seek re
election. Vardaman, driven from the
senate in 1918 by the White House ma
chine, personally directed by Woodrow
Wilson, will replace him.
frammell, Florida, seeking renomin
ation this year, got his notice immedi
ately from Tom Watson, Georgia^ who
wields a powerful influence in Florida.
Poindexter, Washington, Republican
militarist, added support of the treaty
to his record as a supporter of New
berry and as an advocate of anti-strike
bills. He is considered politically
dead.
Dial, South Carolina, textile mag
nate and banker, will not try for re
nomination.
Twelve Democrats voted for the
treaty. It is probable that most of
them had tariff advantages in view
when making up their minds. The two
senators from Louisiana, Ransdell and
Broussard, represent sugar. Under
wood, Alabama, is spokesman for steel
and iron ipterests. Steel and iron al
ways want a high tariff. The Tenne
ssee Coal and Iron Co., and other steel
interests operating in Democratic ter
ritory are likewise anxious to get an
arrangement which shall promote their
business in the orient.
It is a truism that when the consum
ing power of the worker is reduced by
a reduction in his money wages there
are set in motion numerous economic
forces which check industry and busi
ness along all lines of industry. This
consuming power being thus checked,
production is necessarily checked; the
fundamental basis of all expansion in
production is an expansion not a con
traction in the effective consuming
power of the workers. The only pur
pose money wages have for the work
er are the real wages in food, clothing
shelter, and so on, for which he ex
changes his money wages. Reduce
these mpney wages and you decrease
his effective consuming power and thus
retard industrial and business develop
ment.
San Bfcrnardino, Cal— The first
union labor bank in California has just
been started here. The bank operates
under the state banking laws, but is
owned and controlled by the labor un-
is the most
stable government
(By The Federated Press)
• Berlin. — Despite reports in the
American and western European press
and the patter by statesmen that the
Genoa conference to rehabilitate Eu
rope is a certainty, Russia expects an
eleventh-hour postponement.
Speaking before the communist sec
tion of the All-Russian Metalworkers*
congress, Lenin said:
"Nobody knows whether the Genoa
conference has any chance of taking
place. i fear that even those who have
issued the invitations know nothing de
finite about it."
The Russians believe that before the
convention opens another military of
fensive will be engineered against thenii
by the entente.
The entente fears Russia's present
position. Germany would probably
lend Russia spmpathetic support. Ger
man trade with Russia is already very
extensive. The Baltic entente (Es
thonia, Latvia, Lithunia) is bound to
support its eastern neighbor. The so
called little entente of Central Europe,
though dominated by French influence,
will seize every opportunity to eman
cipate itself and assert its independence
of France. This favors Russia, espe
cially since these countries are in ex
treme need of Russian trade. The
countries neutral during the war are
tired of domination by the Anglo
French entente and welcome the pros
pects of Russian trade.
The allies are divided. Italy badly
needs Russian raw materials. France
and Belgium dream of restoring a re
actionary regime in a unified Russia
in order to collect the czarist debt,
while England would rather see Rus
sia split up into small units. America
is regarded as favoring the English idea
of an international banking consortium
to exploit Russia along the lines pro
posed for China.
Russia's internal strength is formid
able. The working masses are loyal
to the government and the Red Army
is in excellent condition, both as to
morale and equipment.
The numerous trade agreements con
cluded by soviet missions have cement
ed Russia's foreign position, penetrat
ing even into France by the Red Cross
agreement that has just been entered
into. There is probably no more sta
ble goyernment in Europe than that
of Russia.
Western European diplomacy is pa
nicky in contemplation of Russian par
ticipation in the Genoa conference, a
prospect it sees no means of evading.
Indefinite postponement of the con
ference is the obvious solution for the
diplomats.
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
Made and Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in:—
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON ' i
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic, thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or low. It sets
fqrth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
alabama workers
stand by organization
(By The Federated Press)
Mobile, Ala. — The Mobile Central
Trades council is preparing to send out
an appeal for financial aid from mem
bers of organized labor for Organizer
John Winstanley, who was murderous
ly assaulted last fall while working un
der the auspices of the International
Union of Timberworkers in Florida.
Winstanley, while a passenger on a
train, was removed by force at a way
station. Although more than four
months have elapsed neither federal
nor state officials have taken any ac
tion. It is reported that eastern fin
ancial interests are using every effort
to keep , the government from bring
ing the matter up in the federal courts.
Winstanley was at the time of the as
sault secretary of the Mobile Central
Trades Council, and had taken up the
work of organizing the men in the tim
ber industry at the request of the in
ternational union.
co-operative theater
organized in seattle
(By The Federated Press)
The first co-operative dramatic the
ater in America has been organized in
t Seattle by twenty-six actors, musicians,
stage craftsmen, and members of the
; administrative staff of the former
j Wilkes theater, who have put their own
! money into the society, which they will
wholly manage and control themselves.
The first performance drew a record
crowd, and the company assures the
public that the same high standard will
be continued. They are not in the the
ater business, they say, to get rich, but
to secure steady employment and a de
cent living for themselves and to pro
vide clean entertainment for the pub
lic.
The Seattle Co-operative Theatre
follows out the plan made famous by
the great Moscow Art Theatre, one of
the finest play houses in Europe, which
is owned and managed by the artists
themselves. Co-operators in several
midwestern cities are successfully op
erating co-operative motion picture
houses, and a group of players from
Greenwish Village, New York City, are
at present producing their own plays.
The Seattle enterprise, however, is the
first time that the entire personnel of
a dramatic company in America has
united in establishing a co-operative
theater.
The unknown, that is what frightens
weak minds.—Louis Blanc.
Misery is dreamy, solitude creative.
—Charles Nodier.
i vWia
m
Wfl
mmm
«
KZ'mi
(O Dur fort Mo/rrt<aJ -CourtcJY o/&* fcgrefofu* ßore&u -
Camoens' Garden in Macao.
Two hills stretching to the sea so
as to form a charming bay, and be
tween them an ancient, half-Spanish,
wholly southern city; its roofs tufted
with verdure, rising one above anoth
er on terraced slopes; its houses with
their once gay tints all faded, basking
in peaceful decrepitude in a sunshine
like that of June; the town fast
asleep; the harbor silting up; the
walls crumbling; the Iron gratings
rusting ; the pavements turning green ;
the gables nodding like old gray heads,
tired of listening to the same old sto
ries—such is Macao, the Far Eastern
outpost of the Portuguese traders of
the Sixteenth century, the Monte Car
lo of the Orient, and one of Portugal's
few remaining possessions In Pacific
waters.
Macao is situated on the west side
of the Pearl river. Forty miles across
Is Hongkong ; eighty-eight miles to the
north lies Canton, seat of the South
China government. Macao was found
ed in 1557. Prior to 1887 there ap
pears to have been no documentary
evidence of a formal cession of this
territory, the Portuguese claiming,
however, that they received It as a
reward for destroying the horde of
Mongolian pirates that harried the
southern coast of China; and the re
mains of the old barrier across the
narrow neck of land separating thç
peninsular town from the rest of the
Island of Heung Chan, and once guard
ed by Chinese soldiers, gave color to
the Portuguese claim. However, all
doubts were laid to rest In 1887 when
formal cession was made by China to
the Portuguese.
Macao's Rise and Fall.
So marvelous was the growth and
prosperity of this Portuguese settle
ment in Its youth that It exc'ted the
envy of the early Dutch traders who
In 1622 attempted Its conquest The
spot where the Dutch leader was
killed by a round shot from Monte
fort, which wrote finis to that at
tempt, Is now marked by a monument.
Macao continued to be a flourishing
mart up to 1841, the British East In
dia company and the Dutch company
meanwhile obtaining a foothold there.
The British free trade propaganda of
the "Forties" excited a demand for a
free port at Macao, to which the Por
tuguese demurred. , Great Britain then
secured the Hongkong concession,
made that a free port in 1845, and
the decline of Macao as an entrepot
dates from that year.
Not only Is Macao the site of the
first European claim made on Chinese
soil, but it has cultural ties with Eu
rope closer knit than the political re
lationships of controverted areas to
the north. It contains the oldest ruin
In China that Is associated with Eu
rope, and the tamarind and banyan
shade the gardens where the Por
tuguese Chauser, Camoens, composed
half of the Lusiads, celebrating the
discoveries of the Portuguese explor
ers who opened up for the West the
secrets of the East. It is one of the
half-dozen of the world's great epics.
Camoens' Place of Exllç.
Luis de Camoens, the star of Lusl
tanlan poetry, became enamored of
Catharina d'Atayada, lady-In-honor to
Queen Catharina of Portugal, which
so enraged the king that he banished
the poet to Macao, about 1567, where
he remained for five years as admin
istrator of the effects of deceased per
sons—a melancholy office for a poet
and lover. Returning in 1572, his ves
sel was wrecked, his small savings
were lost, but the poem which has
been translated into every civilized
language was saved to an appreciative
posterity; A monument to Camoens
marks the spot in the grotto where he
composed his noble epic.
Macao has snoozed peacefully away
on Its Island In late years while con
troversies have raged around the hand
ful of other foreign holdings on the
Chinese coast. But recently the gov
ernment of Southern China is reported
to have demanded that there be a
"cleanup" In the city, a procedure,
which If carried out would entail rec
ognition of the Southern China govern
ment as well as acceptance of its right
to rule in what has long been consid
ered Portuguese territory.
Once in Macao the traveler may re
main to contemplate an out-of-thö
way shrine of European history. But
that is not why most folk board the
daily boat from Hongkong to go there.
It is a summer resort for the Canton
ese because of its exposure to the
cooling monsoons in mid-summer.
Opium smugglers and gamblers. In re
cent years, have loomed large among
Its transients. Formerly the Chinese
coolie traffic also had a headquarter»
here. Within a century its waters may
have warranted the characterization
of one traveler who called them "the
most dangerous waters of the world
from a police standpoint," and added
"a river trip is spiced with the risk
of piratical attack."
Revenues From Gambling.
The ideas of Henry George and oth
er tax theorists have found a niggard
soil in Macao, whose fiscal policy is
simplicity itself. Poo-chee and fan
tan provide the revenues of the city.
It has been said that half the minted
pieces of the Far East find their way
sooner or later to the gambling boards
of Macao, and the old Rix dollar, the
Mexican peso, and the American dime
are clinked upon the tables of the
jeunesse doree, or of the 'rickshaw
coolies and harbor riff-raff of the town,
while a daily flow of men, women and
dollars crosses the estuary from Hong
kong to Macao and pours Into the
hells of the Roa do Jogo, or gambling
street.
Fan-tan is the favorite game, but It
is nothing like the card game of that
name known to Americans. The Chi
nese croupiers sit enthroned before a
square marked at the corners with
the numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4. The banker
reclines behind a grating, smoking a
long pipe. Overhead Is a gallery run
ning all around the room and forming
a sort of ceiling, pierced only by a
hole the size of the table. From this
gallery the bets are made, and the
stakes are - alternately let down and
drawn up, accompanied by the sound
of drawling minstrelsy.
The croupier takes a handful of
small coins and covers them with a
reversed bowl, while money is laid
on one of the four numbers. When
the betting has ceased he lifts the
bowl and separates the coins with his
wand. Then he counts them by fours,
and the remainder, or the last four,
if there be no remainder, represents
the winning number. Each hazard Is
a one-to-three wager, and the banks
pay on that basis, after deducting the
house percentage. A number of these
licensed gambling dens, graded accord
ing to the limit of wager allowed, pay
the revenues of the city of Macao.
Attractive to Travelers.
Present day Macao is not marred
for the casual traveler by either its
flair for fan-tan or its thriving trade
in opium. The latter Is shipped away
to wreak its havoc; the former brings
the bizarre and the adventurous. The
city of today is one of the few Far
Eastern coast towns which have not
been caught In the resistless current
of commercial progress, and for that
reason it presents some Interesting
studies to lovers of the picturesque.
He who lands from a steamer is
captivated by its blend of Portuguese
and Chinese people, by pagoda and
western church, and when the sum
mons of hunger leads him to a hotel
that has been called the cleanest and
most beautifully situated In the Or
ient, the contrast persists. He may
order the famous Portuguese colares
with his yellow water chestnut pasties,
and choose either ultra-accidental
game dinners or pudding of coagulated
duck's blood and sugar-preserved bam
boo shoots. There are but 4,000 Por
tuguese resident there, but they rep
resent a four-century impress that
their nationality has made upon the
total population of about 75,000.
After dinner the visitor may stroll
along the Praya Grande, both the
Broadway and the Riverside drive of
Macao. Having shopped and slummed,
he finally will be led to catch the
deeper romance of the city in the
grotto where the poets have carved
lines of praise to the one-eyed soldier
poet who wrote the glory of farthest
West Europe on an island of nearly
farthest East China.
H. C, L. Pinches King George.
Owing to increased expenses, King
George has found it necessary during
the past few years to supplement the
income he receives from the state out
of his private resources.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the relail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacture end.
But co-operatiu» -or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of' all, are owned equally and controlied,collectively.
No individual greed or desire tor special privilege can beneht at the
expense of the needy. „ , . . . -,
the dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highlandt of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the county »est cf Verasn Parish. It is about 15 3~.c:
feom the Sabine River, 100 mile* from Shreveport, and nearly 300
few Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract. '
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
in any section of the United States. No sickness hat been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building ; dozens of small houses ; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make ils community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life a« does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience pröves that garden truck of almost any kind, many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, sugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and other crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evaporator house
and 'cured.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pure sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Better than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modem brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed. The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the behefit of the
community, are the following;
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant; bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry- /
ing department ; hospital ; hotel ; swimming pool ; theater : and at
various other seasons other work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
fish desires in favor of collective need.
^ ett Cfr-cporateG» as* üiey Cw&ev« m co o p e r atio n
but it takes careful study and persistent training to eliminate the
competitive spirit which has been drilled into them from youth.
Thus, the Colony divides co-operators into two general classes: One
class may join the Colony and co-operate with their fellows com
pletely: The other class desires to live near a co-operative commun
ity, yet own their own land, tools, etc., desiring private ownership in
these things. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre.
I he Colony , s now in a position to interest both. Those who wish
to come into the Colony may do so on the terms of membership given
m another place on this page. Those who wish to own land may
buy a Co-operative Farm, participating to an extent i n the co-operative
advantage, of the Colony. They may market their crop, v^h the
Colony, enjoy the social advantage,, and marty of the educational
advantages, with the privilege of exchanging land to be applied o„ a
membershtp if desired and if acceptable as member,. The Co-oper
ative Colony will retain about 5.000 acre, for itself. The idea is to
build up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
The colony employ, agents, but doe, n ot authorize them to close
any transactions. Memberships should be taken out through the
Membership department, Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville, La
in thn e C nterari. WaD N metnber , S - II wan ! s P e0 P le ,0 become interest«*»
m «1 k one make, any private profit. It i, the opportun
med of - 11 is now an established
TW ! , . yOUr P f' ,0 , eX ' en<1 ,he fie,d oi influence?
All ZI? T \ V,5ll V Colony shou!d get off ,he ,rain at Stable*.
AH trains stop here. You may not be able to purchase a tick*
to this pace; you may have to buy to Leesville, but you can get
a ticket from Leesville here for ten cent, without getting off the
NoHf k eet ,ralnS! C0,0ny ,own " the railroad
Notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so
£r s srtrîiT art it-=
Llano Co-operative Colony
leesville, la.
—Advertisement.
PLANNEp ELEVEN YEARS AGO
CARRYING IT OUT NOW
Just to remind those guileless indi
viduals who are paying little attention
to what is going on around them and
Tail to realize that there is a combin
ation of wealth and power bent on the
^destruction of present-day trade union
ism, we have delved a little into oast
history. Under date of July 8, 1911,
n paper in Los Angeles, Cal., called
the Peoples Paper, reprinted an ar
ticle from the Bankers' Magazine, that
Teads as follews:
"Wé must proceed with caution and
içuard well every move made for the
lower orders, for the people are al
ready showing signs of restless com
Tnotion. Prudence will, therefore', die
late a policy of apparently yielding to
the popular will until all our plans are
so far consummated that we can de
clare our designs without fear of any
organized resistance. The Farmers'
Alliance and socialist organizations in
the United States should be carefully
-watched by our trusted men, and we
must take immediate steps to control
these organizations in our proiect to
disrupt them. At the coming Omaha
-convention our men must attend and
direct its movement, or else there will
T)e set on foot such antagonism to our
designs as may require force to over
come.
This, at the present time, would be
¦premature. We are not yet ready for
such crisis. Capital must protect it
¦self in every possible manner through
combination and legislation.
"The courts must be called to our aid
and debts must be collected: bonds
and mortgages must be foreclosed as
Tapidlv as possible.
"When, through the process of law,
the common people have lost their
homes, they will be more tractable
and easily governed through the in
fluence of the strong arm of govern
ment applied by a central power of
imperial wealth under the control of
leading financiers. A peonle without
Tiomes will not quarrel with their rul
History repeats itself in regular cv
cles. This truth is well known among
t>ur principal men now encased in
forming an IMPERIALISM OF CAPI
TAL TO GOVERN THE WORLD.
"While they are doing this the oeonle
must be kept in a condition of polit
ical antagonism.
"The Question of tariff reform must
be ' urged through the organization
its
THE RE-BUILDING OF LIANO
Need of Hotel and Other Buildings Daily
Becomes More Urgent.-New Electric
Light and Power Plant Provid
ed For.-Next Is New Hotel
Llano Colony will soon have a new
electric light and power plant, a visit
ing comrade having advanced the en
tire amount for its purchase and erec- •
tion.
We now have half the necessary
funds for the first brick residence build
ing, the elevation and floor plans for
which are shown here and about which
we have been talking for some time.
This building is to be only a part
(one of the wings) of our complete
hotel arrangement, which will include
several such buildings around a central
unit which will house the kitchens, din
ing rooms, cafeterias, library and read
ing rooms.
It-is estimated that this first brick
building would cost $60,000 to have it
built by contract. But by building it
with our own labor and almost entire
ly out of materials from the natural
resources on Llano laud, the cash out
lay is proportionately small.
The workers have built all the fine
hotels, but few have aspired to live in
them, and our object is not only to in
spire the desire to do so, but also to
offer the opportunity to the workers.
There are many co-operators who
are not yet prepared to take up their
LLa
in HB
-HI IFR.
ffl
RLE
ED
m
Sff
[ELU
Bffl
permanent abode with us in Newllano
City, and for these comrades rooms are
reserved at $250 each, and the patron
may come at any time and occupy the
room as long as he desires.
This plan offers advantages to those
who plan to spend the winter in the
South, as by the reservation of a room
they can live with us the greater part
of three winters—250 days in all—be
fore their investment is used up. By
living with us, we mean that you will
be entitled to eat three meals a day
with us. We will not lose anything on
this arrangement. Our present hotel
rate is $1.00 per day for room and
board, and there is no reason for rais
ing the price, as food is produced too
cheaply to necessitate that —¦ with the
wastes and profits of capitalism aUnL
iched.
Any balance owe n eo-opwm wt «
room reservation may at any time be
credited on a full membership appli
cation, and we earnestly invite all co
operators to visit us at any time they
are able to do so and familiarize them
selves with our achievements and our
aims. If one can spehd only a week
or two, he will in that short time be
able to learn much as to our resourc
es and the soundness of our plans and
the wonderful possibilities of the co
operative efforts of those who produce
the wealth of the world but have it
taken from them in a thousand forms
of profit, interest« aad
»w mnm undertaken to explain in
the columns of The Llano Colonist, but
we are always glad to answer questions
—always glad to hear from those who
are interested in the progress of our
work. And if you have $250 that you
can spare—we are sure that it can
never be used so effectively as just
at present. It is an investment and not
a donation that we are asking you to
make, and you can apply it on a com
plete membership or use it for vaca
tion purposes at any time you please.
M
TT
M JH
=n J
ixx/4
.Virata —/ 1 ^
V
The Electric Plant Problem Has Been Solved.
The Next Big Thing in the Line of Construction
Is The New Hotel, and We Are Half Way
Toward Starting It. NOW Is the Time YOU
Can Help Most. Let us Hear From You.
ToKcW
—n—
=£3=
=a=
Write for more information and tell us what you think of our work.
Llano Co-operative Colony
Leesville, La.
known as the democratic party, and
the question of protection with recipro
city must be forced to view through
the republican party.
"By thus dividing the voters we can
get them to expend their energies in
fighting over questions of no impor
tance to us except as teachers to lead
thç common herd. Thus by direct ac
tion we can secure all that has been
generously planned, and success
fully accomplished
Oppressive court injunctions, the de
mand in some quarters for an exten
sion of the tyrannical Kansas can't
strike law to other states, incorpora
tion çf trade unions, etc., are only ma
terial for another chapter which is de
sired by the hidden power behinl the
throne. Every member of organized
labor should read and keép in mind
the foregoing statement, printed in a
magazine circulating exclusively among
bankers.
THE AMERICAN COLLEGE
(By The Federated Pre«)
1. The average American college is
a plutocratic hierarchy. The men at
the top—the trustees—are the same
men who run the banks, packing hous
es, and the department -stores, and
they take their business psychology in
to the trustee meetings with them.
2. The average American college is
an academic dictatorship -—teachers
ruling; students obeying.
3. The atmosphere in the colleges is
one of tolerant indifference to "aca
demic" questions of right and wrong,
and of stern determination to win "suc
cess" on the world's terms.
—Scott Nearing.
BRUTAL, INSATIABLE GREED
WOULD STARVE WORKERS
(By The Federated Press)
Weed, Cal. — The strike of lumber
workers against a 10 percent wage cut
and a two-hour longer work-day has
spread to other parts of northern Cal
ifornia and southern Oregon. Railroad
men, farmers and merchants are favor
ing the strikers, and a soup kitchen
has been started in their behalf. The
proposed wage cut would reduce skill
ed labor to 35 cents an hour ,and un
skilled to 24 cents. Weed, Dorris, Mc
Cloud and other affected towns are
"company towns," where all necessar
ies must be purchased at exorbitant
rates.
THE CONQUERING MARCH
OF RIGOROUS THINKING
Comparison of separate instances of
phenomena, inquiry into the processes
of their manifestation, discovery, ex
perimentation and demonstration, have
been the avenues by which all scien
tific knowledge of mankind has been
acquired. This method is called induc
tive reasoning, an operation of the con
scious mind of man, and its initiation
marks the dividing line between super
stition and the dawn of intelligence in
human affairs.
A student of the mental science class
at Newllano on April 2, having heard
that all the ills of mankind could be
traced back to error and deliberate mis
information, inquired of the reader of
the lesson, how it would be possible
for any one to think right, so as to
escape the penalties of wrong thinking.
The answer was, that with respect to
human fellow beings, observance of
the golden rule, both in its affirmative
and negative aspects, in the actions
commended and the actions forbidden,
would prove entirely satisfactory. But
in dealing with things definite know
ledge of their proper utility would fill
the bill. And it must be knowledge
that has direct connection with every
day requirements of human existence
here and now.
The great scheme of the despoilers
of the producers at all times has been
to divert the attention of their victims
from the present condition and re
quirements, and get them tangled up in
all sorts of sophistries that are abso
lutely foreign and non-essential to
their mundane needs and interests.
Life is called a school, and if it is
people must give attention and learn
the lessons that the present plane of
existence imposes. Everyone must
learn to be useful and helpful for this
is the essence of love, which Drum
mond calls the greatest thing in the
world. A teacher of old claimed that
"Love is the fulfilling of the law," or
the observance of the principle of con
ducting oneself and acting in accord
ance with the processes' of social har
mony and social economy. Love, then,
is the essence of brotherhood, and the
proof that one is imbued with the sen
timent of love, of brotherhood, is ocu
larly, visibly, experimentally demon
by the willingness to labor for those
for whom love is professed. Jesus of
Nazareth is credited with the statement
thp.t "Greater love hath no man than
that he devote his life to the service,
a
of
well-being and upliftment of his breth
ren.'' But in addition to willingness to
labor for the members of a fellowship,
those professing love in truth and sin
cerity are credited with the Apostle
Paul in the 13th chapter of the Corin
thians, fourth verse, as displaying cer
tain other characteristics by which they
can be recognized as follows: "Love
suffereth long and is kind; love envi
eth not ; love vaunteth not itself, is not
puffed up, doth not behave itself un
seemly, seeketh not its own, is not pro
voked, taketh no account of evil; re
joiceth not in unrighteousness, but re
joiceth with the truth; beareth all
things, believeth all things, hopeth all
things, endureth all things, love never
faileth."
Knowledge must always precede
faith in the practiçe of brotherhood,
as well as in the practice of anything
else. Sentimental protestations, mere
lipservice have no practical value at
all. When we do useful work and help
to supply the food, clothing, housing
education, entertainments, and ethical
necessaries of our fellows, that alone
supplies conclusive proof of the sin
cerity of love professed.
Egotistical aspiration to be in th?
limelight, for vainglory, for a para
sitical position or existence at the ex
pense of workers anywhere, on • the
other hand, is positive proof of sel
fishness, of iniquity, of disregard of
every principle of right, justice and so
cial harmony.
The character of an individual, of
a community or a nation will deter
mine the conduct, the institutions, and
condition of affairs prevailing. People
are either social, unsocial or anti-so
cial.
When will progressive people ever
learn that universal practical experi
mentation is the process of human ad
vancement. Even as the first models
of every invention have been found
crude and imperfect after the original
test was made, so' must all creeds, phi
losophies, religions and institutions be
considered nothing more than crude
models until through test and experi
mentation they are brought to an effi
cient working basis.
It seems strange that, while one
would acknowledge that the first mo
del of a comparatively simple washing
machine or a sulky plow can never be
thoroughly efficient, they think that a
complex philosophy involving millions
of varying effects in human society can
be thought out in every detail by some
ancient person sitting in a cave or un
der a tree or working at the carpenter's
S=gri.-~*"3aK.
bench, and be correct and complete
in its first theoretical model.
"Were the business of production
and distribution, of architecture, agri
culture, and mechanical invention ail
confined and \limited to the blighting
forms of antiquated creeds, all made
to fear experimentation, as has been
done in the field of ethics, manner»
and customs, we should still be strug
gling in the dark ages.
'Thanks to the daring of a few, we
have already attained progress in many
fields through experimentation, and so
much have we reaped by this method
that we know that there can be no pro
gress wihout experimentation — that
those who have dreamed, theorized
and speculated are now gradually be
ing dislodged from every position of in
fluence by the life force of advancing
humanity.
'To live under free institutions with
a guarantee of freedom and equality,
under the ideals of human brotherhood,
under the edùcational system called
inductive," designed to develop, stim
ulate and vitalize a social individuality
and consciousness, means that all our
mutual affairs of our personal exist
ence, our food, clothing, shelter, and
relations with each other, so long as
we do not invade the rights of others
and prevent them from having the
same liberty as we, is the one true rule
of life, the one sure road to happiness,
the one philosophy that can insure the
highest human physical and social pro
gress. Judging social problems from
the standpoint of «elfish privilege, is
the cause of all error in theory and
practice and this shows how important
it is to do rational, accurate thinking.
ESCAPE FROM PLUTOCRATIC
AMERICA TO GO TO RUSSIA
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — All "production units"
organized by the Society for Technical
Aid to Soviet Russia, 100 W. 40th St.,
will be admitted to Russia without
question, the society has been inform
ed. The notification came in the form
of a cablegram from L. C. Martins at
Moscow.
Groups of shoemakers, farmers, me
chanics and engineers, with full equip
ment, already have departed under the
auspices of the society and other
groups of farmers, tailors, shoemakers,
electro-mechanics, and structural work
ers have sent representatives.
JUDICIAL PROSTITUTION
(By The Federated Pre«»)
Washington, — For the first -lisi
a committee of congress has heard
shameful story of bow the polit'
prisoners of the world war were m__.
—how lynch law was applied to the Î.
W. W., and the Oklahoma tenant far
mers' organizations, how the appellafe
courts have held that ihe charges of
conspiracy to commit overt acts of in
dustrial character were unsupported by
evidence, and how th« î \ 3 men still in
prison for the expression of their opin
ions were sent and kept there through
public hysteria, promoted by the en
emies of organized labor and civil
tv.
In mingled resentment, doubt and
political anxiety the house judiciary
committee listened throughout Thurs
day's hearing, conducted by Albert De
Silver, director of the American Civil
Liberties union, upon R cd. Meyer Lon
don's resolution, asking President Hard
ing to grant amnesty to all the remain
ing political prisoners of the govern
ment. Lawyers all, they ignored party
lines as between republican and demo
crat in their efforts to find some ex
cuse, in the findings of the apellate
courts or in the unsupDorted claims of
the attorney general, for a refusal to
intervene to put an end to the scandal
of these men's imprisonment.
Major Sidney Lanier, scion of one
of the oldest aristocratic families of
South Carolina, did make an impres
sion even upon such members as Her
sey of Maine and Walsh of Massachu
setts, when he told of his search of
the records of the Chicago I. W. W.
trial as an officer of the military intel
ligence service, and of his finding in
all the testimony in five months of ijsat
trial not one particle of evidence of
any overt act on the part of any of the
100 men who were found guilty by
the jury.
100% PATRIOTS ACTIVE
Chicago. — Admitting that they
would ^import more strikebreakers in
their open shop" campaign against
the building trades unions, the Citi
zens' Committee to Enforce thè Landis
Award told the city council committee
that they had already 5000 non-union
building trades workmen at work in
Chicago. The 200 imported union
workmen who charge they were brot
in through false advertisements by the
citizens' committee stating that there
was no labor trouble in Chicago are
being cared for at the city's expense.
The Llano Colonist
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEESVILLE. LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Entered as second-class matter, May 14, 1921, at the postoffice at
Leesville, La., under act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS: Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tions regarding the publications to The Llano Publications, Leesville, La.
Tras will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name as it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER— Editor.
The Federal Statistics show that the
cost of living in the United States is
now from 26 to 31 per cent higher than
it was in 1913. What about the wag
es? They have gone so high that they
can't be found anywhere!
The British Co-operative Wholesale
Society is reported to have taken over
an entire coal mine, the Shiibottle Col
liery, to secure coal at labor cost for
the 4,500,000 families now supplied by
its retail stores, and there can be no
question but that the British co-opera
tors will make a big success of the
venture. It may be news to many Am
ericans that co-operative coal-mining
has been previously carried on success
fully in the United States, notably in
the State of Kansas at Osage City.
Twenty-five years ago, organized as a
voluntary Labor Exchange, they car
ried on operations successfully for a
number of years. I visited them on
Labor Day in 1898 and was one of the
speakers at the celebration of that day,
and what I saw, and what they told me,
showed these workers fully competent
to successfully operate an industry
with which they are familiar. And
what more than anything else delighted
me was the fact that men from practi
cally all the different nationalities of
Europe and natives of America could
work together harmoniously in co-op
eration.
"Co-operative coal mining is also
carried on to-day in this country. The
entire town of Himlerville, W. Va., at
tests the success of the Hibler Co-op
erative Coal Company, owned by 1400
miners, who also own the local bank,
a co-operative weekly paper, and an
electric power station to supply their
homes with light at cost. In the Tug
River district of Kentucky the workers
have organized the Nebo American
Coal Company, with a capital of $240,
000 supplied co-operatively by the min
ers themselves. The United Mine Work
ers'' Co-operative Store at Boonville,
Indiana, owns its own co-operative coal
mine; and a co-operative mine at Dug
ger in the same state has a production
of over three hundred tons a day.
'There can be no peace in the coal
industry so long %s greed for profits
and not service is the aim of the men
who control it. It is an economic and
social crime in this twentieth century
for the men who do the hazardous,
heavy work of mining the coal that
keeps us warm and turns the wheels
of industry, to be compelled to strike
in order to secure a living wage and a
fair condition of labor. There is only
one way to end this crime, and that is
by co-operative ownership and control
of the nation's coal resources for the
benefit of all instead of a privileged
few."
Pity those who have lived without
lovjng.—Arsene Houssaye.
Let Us Do Your
Quick
Printing
Service
Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesville, La.
President Lincoln abolished chattle
slavery, but established wage slavery
for both white and black by delegating
to private banks the privilege of con
trolling money and credit and charg
ing interest for it use (7% or more
per annum to the bank and 3% to the
Government to pay the bank's interest
on the bonds that secure the bank
notes).
Money at 10% per annum com
pounded quarterly, doubles in seven
years; thus $100 in 7 years calls for
$200; in 14 years, for $400; in 21
years, for $800; and in 28 years, for
$1,600 in payment, although money
does not increase itself, is dead, inert,
whether paper or metal. Yet, interest
increases the debtor's obligation to pay
money which does not exist, a natural
impossibility, and ruins them financial
ly because of inability to porform an
mpossibility.,
Fifty years later the Industrial Com
mission reported that "the rich two per
cent of the people owned 60 per cent
of the wealth." In 1922 it is reason
able to estimate that the rich two per
cent of the people hold interest earn
ing securities or claims against the peo
ple equalling or exceeding the total
wealth of the United States. And they
show no desire to put their thieving
money into productive or commercial
channels, but seem to be obsessed with
a mania to invest only in non-taxable
securities, to escape paying any share
of the public expense.
Twelve of the 113 war-time prison
ers in America are British-born. Rich
ard Brazier was a metal worker in Bir
mingham; Joe Aates was a miner at
Cleator Moor; Ted Frazer hails from
Manchester; Sam Scarlett was a mem
ber of the old Amalgamated Society
of Engineers in Glasgow. Others of
English origin are Charles Lambert,
Bert Lorton, J. A. Macdonald, Don
Sheridan, Frederick Esmond, Harry
Lloyd, Herbert Hahler, and William
Moran.
Thousands of leaflets summing up
the plight of the politicals in the Un
ited States are being circulated by the
Class War Prisoners' Release Commit
tee here.
"Brutal persecution still continues in
America against workers active in de
fending the interests of their class,"
declares the committee in these leaf
lets.
The pecan saved the day for the
farmers of Louisiana. It is estimated
that approximately $8,000,000 worth
of pecans were sold from the native
trees which grow wild on the alluvial
land over the state.
It is impossible to improve men with
out showing them up as they are.
BY THE WAY
The contest between the fly and the
swatter now begins. The swatter has
flys rush in where angels soon will
tread.
* * * *
Sheep men in North Carolina have
developed a plan to send their wool di
rect to the woolen mills, which has
proven satisfactory to the grower and
the manufacturer.
* * # *
Mrs. Härtung sobbed her story while
she held her baby close to her breast
in a Chicago court where her husband
was held for burglary. "My husband
was out of work; we had spent all our
earnings, and were hungry. We appeal
ed to relatives but got no help; and
fearing that our baby would starve, we
put the baby in the carriage and I
watched outside the homes while my
husband went in and rifled the ice box
es for food." Her story was verified by
the police who stated that the home
which he had entered were not molest
ed, excepting the food that was stored
in the ice boxes. "Six months in jail.
Next!
How the law can be twisted and un
twisted to suit, was demonstrated
New Orleans last week. The City had
entered into a contract with the street
railway for the use of its street for a
stated term of years anl at a stated
price. The agreement was entered in'
to between the City and the street rail
way company, that no charge for pas
senger rates should ever be more than
five cents per mile. Now the courts
have decided that the City was all
wrong; that it had no right to tell the
street railway company the price of a
fare about the City streets. The courts
decides that, although the City is
"rate-making body," still the city can
not make rates. Beat that if you can.
Mister Reader!
* # » »
"I want a good book, some knitting,
a rocking chair, and a house full of
children," said Mrs. Leonora Medeora,
a woman lawyer of Chicago, who has
been in politics for the past ten years,
and was public welfare commissioner
under Mayor Harrison of that city.
"For the glamor of public life I gave
up my home, my husband and my chil
dren," she said. "It doesn't pay. I
am going to abandon this life and take
my god-given place within the family
circle. Perhaps I am a bit old-fashion
ed; but I am going to quit the law
and the practice of politics that goes
with it, and go home and bake apple
pies for the kiddies. To hear them say
'Come home, mamma, won't you," is
teaching me that I am not, nor have
been, doing my duty to these babes of
mine. So farewell to public life." were
her parting remarks.
w * * *
There is a religious war in Ireland.
The North and the South hate each
other with an intensity that defies de
scription, and nothing seems to appease
the hatred that has been engendered
there. This comes from a systematic
campaign began centuries ago by in
terests now long since obsolete—but it
pays some people to keep such a thing
going. And you will always find the
man who will tell you that the other
fellow is no good for tihs or that rea
son; because his ancestors many years
ago shot your ancestors, or some oth
er foolish nonsense that should have
been forgotten long ago, if we humans
are to live with each other on this
planet in peace with each other. Watch
out for the man who will set your mind
against some other man for personal
Who has not heard of the "million
aire Hobo" or tramp? Few have be
lieved that such a person ever existed,
yet here we have the statement of Mrs.
Graham Duffield of Chicago, who had
come to New York finally to see if she
could not locate her 18-year-old son,
who had decamped from a private
school some six months ago, and had
not been heard from since. She em
ployed the best detectives that Chica
go had and they soon located her boy
slinging hash in a cheap Bowery hash
house, where he got $10 a week and
board for his services. When pressed
to go home with his mother, he declin
ed until she informed him that he was
a millionaire in his own right, and
would come into full possession of his
wealth in tliree years. Then he gave
in and went home in a special train.
The boy had on the crudest kind of
overalls when found, and stated that
he had gone to sleep many a night
hungry. He told some of the most
startling tales of his adventures among
the down and outs, and declared that
when he came into the possession of
his thirteen millions he would use it
to alleviate the wrongs that the down
and outs now suffer from in all parts
of the country.
* » * »
According to the latest statistics from
the different countries in Europe: Eng
land has 2,300,000 out of work. Ire
land's industires are idle from internal
strife. France has 1,000,000 unem
ployed, and another million at work in
reconstruction at starvation wages.
Austria only needs the preacher to say
the U, few words ,o - he, Uk -
an industrial nation. The Scandinave
ian countries can no longer run the in
dustries of the separate nations that
constitute Scandinavia for the want of
consumers for her products. Germany
is working with a vim to supply all that
will buy the goods that she will sell for
any price, and as a consequence of this
the German is to-day getting less of the
good things of life in return for the
energy expended than any other nation
on earth. Italy is trying to borrow
money to sustain the life of the nation.
Bread! bread! is the cry heard on the
streets. Portugal and Spain are over
run with poverty and unemployment.
The soldiers must keep order with the
bayonet on the public street.
And we wonder why ! It is the same
old world as ever; there are as many
people with hungry mouths as former
ly; they all need to be fed and clothed.
And, notwithstanding the immense loss
of human life during the war, there
are to-day more people in the world
than there were before the war. Do
you know what is wrong with this old
world of ours? Better get wise, ask
questions, then dissect the questions un
til you find the solution to the great
problem. Every one has some idea ex
cept you; now it is your turn to settle
the question with yourself.
*
* *
After four years of determination, I
combined with pluck, the Peruvian
government and American doctors have
ridden Peru of that monster, yellow fe
"It was a tçst of human endurance
and intelligence against ignorance and
opposition, and we won," said Dr. Hen
ry Hanson. "Our chief obstacle was
the ignorance on the part of the public.
In one town the whole population rose
against us because we closed the
churches. Nothing could have made
a sane people more angry; the town
was doomed; yellow fever was all
around ; people were dying by the hun
dreds daily; they went to church every
day to pray for the recovery of some
member of their family, and unconsci
ously spread the disease. To tell them
this simple fact was like putting out
a flame with oil. They mobbed our
office, attempted to kill our director,
and we had to escape through a hole
made in the roof of the building. We
were eventually compelled to withdraw
from that place because of the bitter
ness of the inhabitants, and left them
to the mercy of the Creator. After
wards the town was entirely wiped out
by the scourge. The outside world will
little realize the immensity of the work
;arried to perfection against all kinc.
0 f odds until we brought the country
back to health. The inhabitants were
dying by the thousands, and no matter
what efforts we made to appease their
sufferings, there was the same opposi
tion shown until we appealed to the
Peruvian Government who sent soldiers
down to quell the aggressiveness of the
people. But the grand work is done
and yellow fever is no more in Peru.
The four years spent there has added
twenty years to my life. Saving an ig
norant mob from themselves is An un
enviable task and is unconceivable to
the ordinary individual," was the state
ment given by Dr. Hanson.
This is not serious, biit merely inter
esting, or amusing.
Some years ago, Ole Hansen, of Se
attle, won sporadic fame by crushing
in a spectacular manner a general
strike.
Patter on the back by Capital, Ole
known by the red-eared strikers as
"Holy Ole," lectured over the country
to explain how he did it. He became
the pampered pet of parlor and other
capitalists.
Seattle became to small for Ole, who
aspired for presidential honors. At
least he was accused of it. His force
ful methods, and high-pressure self-ad
vertising seemed to point out Holy Ole
as the ideal man for the place.
, Then the bright lights of Los An
geles claimed Holy Ole and his high
ideals af crushing the working class
were absorbed by the higher capitalis
tic ideal of making money.
Meanwhile, the holy one wrote a
book, "Americanism or Bolshevism."
Having observed Bolshevism from the
vantage point of Seattle splendidly fit
ted Hansen to handle the subject. ' In
one of the second hand book stores of
Los Angeles there is a huge pile of
Holy Ole's masterly literary effort.
Now, however, the master of Seattle
is selling real estate out on Slausen Ave
nue.
And here's the strange, strange
thing.
Red flags are flying on the tracts,
bearing the caption, "Ole Hansen."
The use of the red flag by the holy
one is at least surprising.
Emma Goldman, shipped to Russia
against her will when deported from
the United States, has studied the land
of the soviets with care and is now
telling, through the Hearst press and
other papers, how horrible it is. It is
only fair to mention that the Hearst
press states that it takes no responsibil
ity for the truth of the articles, but
merely for their authenticity.
Emma Goldman, agitator for many
years, finds Russia a land where pov
Then she shows a few trivial instances
to prove her case.
Emma complains of the processes of
government, and the centralization of
power. She makes accusations of bu
reaucracy,
There is something reminicently fa
miliar about the tone of her writings.
Familiar to any one who has partici
pated in any co-operative movement,
or in any effort to improve the lot of
the people.
It is to be feared that the vehement
Emma is more deeply enamored of her
own peculiar propaganda than she is
of the desire to help the multitudes.
Possibly the authorities of Russia did
not ask her advice. It may be that she
was not a welcome guest, but merely
a tolerated one.
At any rate, believers in any of the
principles of the Co-operative Common
wealth, and spokesmen for groups most
of all, should refrain from leveling the
finger of scorn and using the capitalis
tic press to discredit the efforts of com
rades in the face of overwhelming
odds.
Those who have viewed Emma as a
somewhat fanatic propagandist with
whom they might not agree, but for
whom they have - at least held some
measure of respect, are likely to feel
I disappointed to find that she is not
above abusing her comrades, and to
aid and abet the capitalistic nations, of
the world in their brutal campaign
against struggling, starving Russia.
Emma Goldman can justly be accus
ed of having turned her back on the
masses. She is now being used as a
tool of capitalism.
Emma, the super-red, shades to pink,
then changes and becomes black.
Fortunately, her power is not great.
The Genoa conference is about to
convene, anl the Russian delegates to
that convention have arrived in the
dead hour of the night. They are
guarded by the local military to pre
vent attacks by fanatics. This conven
tion attracts the attention of the world
because on its success depends the fu
ture of the world for the next ten years.
L. Krassine the Russian representative
to the convention, says: "France is
most insistent of all nations that we
restore "private property' in Russia.
She intends to demand that we restore
all confiscated lands to their former
owners, irrespective of and from the
fact that the land owners of Russia
comprised but one tenth of the whole
people. To that demand there is but
one answer. France, during her revo
lution, confiscated the lands of the rul
ing classes, and France, after the revo
lution, did not restore them.
"We in Russia have done what
France did 150 years ago. France
was condemned then as we are now,
but no one will dare deny that the re
distribution of the confiscated lands
among the peacants of France has
made France the richest country per
capita in the world. What France has
done for her children we can do. We,
too, hold the great ambition to be the
richest country per capita in all the
world. All we ask is for France to
attend to her own business and not
meddle in ours. How would you Am
ericans like it if France or any other
country came to your home land and
demanded that you make and unmake
laws to please the Frenchmen at the ex
pense of your own countrymen? Ask
yourself that question and you will get
a true outline on what the Genoa con
ference is all about.
FARMER-LABOR PARTY
VICTORIOUS IN IOWA
(By The Federated Press)
Clinton, la. —The Farmer-Labor
party re-elected H. W. Cowles as may
or by a majority of 300 votes, and won
three out of the nine members of the
city council. Cowles made his run
against a Republican, the Democrats
fusing with the Republicans and fail
ing to place a candidate in the field
in a futile effort to defeat Cowles.
WISCONSIN STATE CAPITAL
OPEN FOR FREE SPEECH
(By The Federated Press)
Madison, Wis. — Freedom of speech
won a victory in Wisconsin when Gov
ernor John J. Blaine decided to allow
Mrs. Kate Richards O'Hare, jailed 14
month during the war as a political
prisoner, to speak in tht assembly
chamber of the capitol, despite the pro
test of the American Legion.
Mrs. O'Hare is being brought to
Madison by the Social Science club of
the university, which secured the as
sembly room without attempting to ob
tain a university hall, in view of the
attitude of the university authorities
toward certain liberal and radical
speakers.
NO STRIKE-BREAKERS WANTED
(By The Federated Press)
Seattle.—This city has 8,000 unem
ployed, and needs no 300 strikebreak
ers to take the places of men striking
at the Renton car shops, was the word
flashed to Portland from here to fore
stall scab herding in that city recently
COAL MINE OPERATORS
DISREGARD LAWS
(By The Federated Press)
Pittsburg. — Following the southern-;
Ohio coal operators in their attempt
to disrupt the United Mine Workers
of America, the Pittsburgh district op
erators, who have violated their con
tract by refusing to meet the miners
international officers in conference»,,
have now made an offer of a separate
agreement with the miners in their dis
trict. This announcement follows re
ports from Washington that President
Harding and Secretary of Labor Davis,
will make no further attempt to in
duce the operators to live up to their
contract with the miners.
WISCONSIN GOVERNOR
PROTECTS FREE SPEECH
(By The Federated Press)
Madison, Wis. — With Adj-Gen.
Alonzo Holway in the chair, quelling;
an outburst at the beginning, the Kat&
Richards O'Hare lecture in the States
capitol, against which members of the
American Legion had made threats,,
was listered to without further interrup
tion by an overflow audience.
A protest meeting by the legion the
night before broke into disorder when
an ex-service man attempted to de
fend the Social Science club of the
University of Wisconsin, of whifeh he
was a member and which had invited
Mrs. O'Hare to speak. Legionaires ob
jected to Mrs. O'Hare because of her
conviction as a war-time policical pris
oner.
Governor Blaine was unmoved by
the Legion protests, refusing to bar the
Social Science club meeting froih the
capitol, which had been engaged be
cause the university authorities are too*
reactionary to ^permit cerain liberal:
speakers on the campus.
A PLUTOCRATIC CONSPIRACY
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago. — A small group of pow
erful corporations to-day control the
jobs of nearly all American workers
and fix the pay rolls of American in
dustry. These interests control the
prices of basic materials to such an ex
tent that they can lock out customers
Thus they can strangle industry either
by maintaining prices which are entire
ly out of proportion to the level of
wages, or by cutting the spending pow
er of labor as a consumer tjirough big
reductions in pay rolls.
B. M. Jewell, president, railway em
ployes' department, A. F. of L., offer
ed statistics to establish the above facts
in his argument before the United Stat
Subscription Rates: s 'The Llano
Colonist" weekly, for one year, ; $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign coun
tries. $2.50..
Classified Section
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles to town; 1 mile to
school. About 40 acres wood; 30
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grass;
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00).
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance in
cash. Will take Llano stock up to
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S.
care Llano Colonist 147
WILL TRADE FOR COLONY
STOCK—40 acres of bottom land,
mostly under cultivation, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.— H. A.
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
12 acres cleared and under cultivation..
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;'
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
terraced. Price, $1100. Main road.
A. E. WELDON, Rte I. Box 63, Lees
ville, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber onbal
ance; good house; two tenant houses,
$10,500 for all. — See G. T. Pickett,
Lano Colony. 3g
FOR SALE—102 acres; 32 acres,
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 bams.
Price $5,000. Close to Colony hotel.
See Ueorge T. Pickett. 39
™ acres near Picker
ing; 3U acres m cultivation; good tim
ber on the balance; hummock and
black land; good six room house with
Sm Ck c oP, aces; a bargain at
$4500.—See Pickett Llano Colony."32
F0R SALE—55-acre farm near Pick
ering; 45 acres cleared of, stumps,
welWenced and cultivated; family or
chard of mixed fruits; two good hous
$3 3M % r the T r PHce
$3,300. See G. T. Pickett, 1 Llano
Leesville and Louisiana Items
NEW TRAIN SCHEDULE
NOW IN EFFECT ON K
C. S.
A new schedule, changing the'time
of nearly all passenger trains, became
effective on the Kansas City Southern
Railway at 12.0! a.m. Sunday, April
2. The new schedule has been ar
ranged with the view of giving the peo
ple better service and there is no doubt
that it will be entirely satisfactory.
Schedule :
No. 2, north-bound, 1:57 p.m.
No. 1, south-bound, 3:40 p.m.
No. 4, north-bound, 3,28 a.m.
No. 3, south-bound, 3.00 a.m.
No. 12, north-bound, 7:42 p.m.
No. 11, south-bound, 9:43 a.m.
REGISTRAR WILL
CLOSE BOOKS SOON
So far about 3,000 names have been
registered at the. office of Hon. V. 0.
Craft, Registrar of Voters in Vernon
Parish, who is about to close his books
not to be re-opened until thirty days
before the next election.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
Marriage licenses were issued this
week at the office of Hon. A. R. Hicks,
Clerk of Vernon Parish, to: Mr. Dor
sey Kring and Miss Leona Cotton, both
of Hutton; Mr. Benjamin Seal and
Miss May Graham, both of Leesville;
Mr. William Howard and Miss Alice
Red, both of Fulierton; Mr. Anderson
Jones and Miss Texana Fowler, both
of Leesville.
B. A. GUY
NEW AND SECOND-HAND
FURNITURE
Only Store in Leesville Selling 2nd
hand Furniture
Next Door to Lewis, the Tailor's
LEWIS BROS.
LEADING TAILORS
Phone 227
MAKE PANTS IN ONE DAY
We Tailor Them Right
Sanitary Cleaning and Pressing
ALTERING AND DYEING
DR. I. O. WINFREE
DENTIST
Office in Lyons Building
Over Stephens' Store
Telephones — Office 132
Residence 79
Post Office Box 126
Roberts, Tailors
We handle all kinds of tailoring
work and guarantee satisfaction; or-no
charges. Phone 144.
.Go dyear Shoe
Repairs
AT REASONABLE RATES
STABLES, LA.
NOW ONLY 20 CENTS A POUND
Llano Peanut Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained ^and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
Nature's Meat for Children
One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
value and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in 1 -lb., 4-lb., and 8-lb. cans, at 20c a poundese t
jstly e»
/ Mail your order to— ;hation Y
jbish attitu»
a system ofi â.
Llano Co-operative Colony, L.ees^« e d a " e m S*
think again
'NOTED OIL MAN"
IS SECRET SERVICE MAN
If you should see a simple-minded
fellow who seems to be loaded up with
more dollars than he knows how to
take care of properly, and he should
tell you a story of untold wealth that
lies hidden under your very feet; who
whispers of oil, oil, big gushers of it
running wild along the road sides of
the Parish, and wants inside informa
tion as to where he can get leases of
any kind—then intimates that he is
thirsty and the amount of good money
he would give for a drink ;\ tells of the
good stuff he can get "at home," and
what he would be willing to pay for
something real good; a hail-fellow
well-met; a mixer that gets under your
hide until he thinks you can be squeez
ed out of a $20 easily, or perhaps more
—then, go away, friend, and sit down
and^ think ; yes, think hard, and then
Then go away off some
where and sit in the shade until the
dream of so many $20 blows away.
'Cause 'tain't goin' do you no good;
and besides you have your little family)'
that will need you for the next twelve
months—yes, and that old bus'll miss
you, too.
Varied and strange are the methods
employed by the Federal Secret Ser
vice men; they come to-day, demon
strate their merit, and depart like a
ghost in the night.
Leesville has had a visit from one
of these gentry' recently. He came and
captured the town; posed as an oil
man looking for oil leases that could
be bought cheap, stating that he held
inside information in oil matters that
must be told only in whispers, jfbout a
big surprise in oil that is coming to
the Parish of Vernon soon. And so
he goes, working until the small hours
of the morning, always with an insat
iable thirst that must be appeased at
any cost, until like a bolt from the sky
comes the news that this friend who
has been so generous, so liberal, so
confidential, so kiind to you, was in
reality a secret service man, having
come here for the express purpose of
a round-up for the fellows that were
doling out the stuff that unmakes a
man. He swore out warrants for 46
in Leesville whose stories will be told
at the coming term of court, if you
wish to hear it. Come up; it's free.
This "friend" who was innocence
personified, and who stated that he was
from the RED River district, bears the
Honored name of Moses. He comes to
lead the children.of Israel—no, Ver
into the Promised Land of Arid
ity, even at the expense of one year
in jail.
COURT IN SESSION
DISPOSES OF CASES
The Twelfth Judicial Court is still
in session at the Vernon Parish Court
House, Leesville, the calendar of crim
inal and civil cases being so extensive
that Hon. Mr. Justice John H. Boone,
who presides will not be able to fin
ish the court's business until about
April 10th or 12th. Among the cases
disposed of so far were that of Harry
Brogden, who was sent to the peniten
tiary at Baton Rouge to serve at least
five years for burglary and larceny,
his entire sentence being nine years,
subject to commutation for good be
havior.
The trial of Hamp Brown for mur
der is still being continued before a
jury composed of Messrs. Robert Mc
Cullough, Emery Burns, S. A. Evans,
Asa Dowden and Robert Burns.
THE SUB-WAY
(By Joshua Long)
Yours truly" has been requested
to keep an eye on our circulation ther
mometer and report from time to time
the rising temperature. This thermo
meter is a peculiar "dingus,"—it has
no zero and is not due to "pop off"
until the mercury reaches the hundred
thousand rtiark. In plain English, this
mèans that we have set our goal for
the circulation of the "Colonist" at
100,000. A big job, you say? Yes,
but little jobs are not worth while in
an undertaking of this kind. Just re
member that there is no zero on the
thermometer—no provision for the
temperature to go down—it must go
up. The sub hustlers are getting onto
thé job in earnest—the mercury is ris
ing. Send in your own sub and go af
ter your friends who should be read
ing the Colony publications—any old
way to get the subs is the SUB-WAY.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
H. S. Richards, Oregon, sends sub.
to Colonist and Co-operator, and says:
"There is no literature that I have ever
read that interests as the Colony publi
cations do." Promises a visit to the
Co ' on y soon -
A \ t n
Montana, sends sub
0 Colonist and says: "The Colon
* st ' 8 a « information bureau," compli
ments the "lady reporter" on her
"preachetts" and threatens to join the
125-CLUB. Expects to visit the Colony
shortly and giv« us the "once over."
Alright, comrade, the latch string is
out.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Louis Jossi, California, has a griev
ance. It seems that he has been as
sociated with some one who, in turn,
has been carelessly associated with
Ernest Wooster and thus, indirectly, he
has become inoculated with the germs
of Colony co-operation. These germs
are known to be deadly to one's cap
italistic peace of mind. As proof that
the inoculation "toolf," he sends for
literature. These Colony germs are
queer bugs—they never give up—their
only terms are an "unconditional sur
render." He has also read the "Diary"
and says it draws like a porous plas
ter. Vivu la "cimoj"!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
H. Clair, George, Pennsylvania, sub
scribes for the Colonist and throws this
bouquet: "I like the Colonist. Why?
Not "just because" but because—yes
—its style and "wotchacalit," it "jest
sorta makes ya feel—0 darn it—its
different from these hyer cut an' dried
noospapers." That is just the point,
Comrade George, we mean for the Col
onist .to be "different"; the world
needs something different and we are
depending upon our "boosters" to help
us put our message across by induc
ing their comrades and friends to sub
scribe. Do this and watch the mer
cury go up.
BERRIES AND SMALL FRUIT
One of the greatest aids to good
health in the summer season for the
individual or a family is an abundance
of berries and fruit for the daily diet.
Because of this importance the dis
cussion of this subject at the agricul
tural meeting at Newllano on Friday
night, March 3!, was listened to with
intense interest.
Everyone, having had some exper
ience with berries either as a grower or
consumer, felt free to take part in the
discussion, and enjoyed the _ meeting
immensely. It made one's mouth wat
er to listen to the excellence of logan
berries, black rasberries, strawberries,
gooseberries, mulberries and many oth
er kinds, as descanted upon by the re
spective champions.
The strawberry patches at the Col
ony are slowly ripening their delicious
berries and everyone expects to get a
full share of the harvest. But the de
sire is to grow the greatest possible
variety to insure the largest gustatory
delight to the colonists' palates com
patible with good health. The woods
and waysides are full of a world of
wild blackberries and mulberries and
there is no lack of provender in that di
rection for the residents' tables.
The agricultural meetings have be
come a blessing to the Colony. Pre
vious to them many of the colonists
failed to take enough interest in the
agricultural possibilities of our landed
estate, but now everyone is alive to
them, with great benefit to all our
affairs. We now know that the Col
ony lands, can supply all our food
stuffs and clothing material with the
exception perhaps of some tropical pro
ductions that can easily be dispensed
with, for the present.
The improvements already secured
from a limited amount of drains put
in and the application of our home
made fertilizer, are so visible that even
the most confirmed sceptic has been
converted into an enthusiastic optim
ist. We are aflame with Ja spirit that
spells success and victory. We are just
full of pep to the bursting point, and
are bound to work out all the colony
plans to their utmost excellence.
The Junior Colonist
EDITOR, BENNETT BABB
Reporters, Truman Benthall, Victor
Gaddis, Margaret Seelye.
¦V ¥ ¥ ¥
Mrs.j Blair has gone away, and every
body is sorry, especially the "kids,"
and we are all looking forward to the
time when we shall see her come back
and be auntie to us again.
* * ¥ ¥
Instead of having our regular Self
Government League meeting last Sat
urday, we all went out to the swimming
pool and took our lunch. And just
let me tell you right now that we sure
häd a good time. We all hope we
may go out there every Saturday after
this.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
There are two more new beginners
in our violin class now. Beulah Gad
dis and Bill Beavers each have a violin
and are getting along finely. Of
course, they are rather young to take
up the violin, one being fourteen and
the other twenty-three. At least, their
teacher says they act too young some
times.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The school 'kids" were very sorry
to sete Mrs. West, "one of the girls,"
go away. At least, we all regard her
as one of us, although she is about
seventy years old. She is so lively and
jolly that we could not possibly regard
. „
her as a grown-up lady. You see, a
grown-up lady to us means one who
is very old-acting, and does ,not mingle
with the "kids." We all hope to see
Mrs. West come back some day soon.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
We have a very good way of keep
ing our vocabulary sanitary now. When
one of us says something he ought'not
to say, we just go to the soap and
wash out his or her mouth. It proves
to be very effective, too. This is an
incident that happened the other day.
"Z" said to "X", "Say, what was that
you said?" "X" looked rather sheep
ish and did not answer. "Z" continu
ed. "Now, you know, X, that sort of
thing doesn't go around here, we are
tired of it, so I guess you had better
come along with us to the wash room."
When they got there, this is what "Z."
said to "X"; I'll give you three to
chew that soap fifteen times. "X"
said nothing, so "Z" went on: "1
2 but the 3 was never heard be
'X" chewed the soap and took
his medicine. He knew if he did not,
YOU
d
ea
The American Co-operator
MARCH NUMBER NOW IN MAIL
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, and points out their successful formulas.
It also carries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal order, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "THE AMERICAN CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
American Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
Job Harriman's Editorials are well worth the price of the year's subscription, for
they are far-seeing, thought-provoking, and always new.
You can learn Esperanto through the Easy Lessons printed in The American Co
operator and written by Howard Buck."
Theo. F. Cuno, a veteran radical newspaper writer, gives two pages of comment,
on the latest thought in current reading, throwing the spotlight of years of experience
onto the sayings of men of to-day.
Many other special articles are printed each month.
You ought to keep in touch with this line of thought. The writers in "The Am
erican Co-operator" write without fear of editorial displeasure; they speak their minds.
It is free thought.
CONTENTS OF THE MARCH NUMB ER
THE PACIFIC CO-OPERATIVE
LEAGUE IN RECEIVERS' HANDS
TO PROTECT MEMBERS.
THE SPIRIT OF REVOLUTION—By
Alanson Sessions.
WE, OF NEWLLANO—By Theo F.
Cuno.
THE FAILURE OF CO-OPERATORS
TO CO-OPERATE—By Job Harri
man.
"IS DEATH NECESSARY?"—By Dr.
John DeQuer.
JOB HARRIMAN'S EDITORIALS.
\
DOINGS OF THE MONTH AT
LLANO—By Frank H. Newman.
EASY LESSONS IN ESPERANTO;
AND CURRENT NOTES—By How
ard L. Buck.
UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE BRO.
THERHOOD LOGICAL FRUIT OF
PROPAGANDA — By Ernest S.
Wooster.
OPEN LETTER TO W. R. ATKINSON
—By H. E. Branch
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
he would "get it,," which means a call
ing down at our mental science class.
The other day when some of us miss
ed some words in our spelling test we
felt like saying something, so we said,
"Oh, get the soap!" The vQcabular
les are improving very much.
^ ^ ^
Last Saturday when Beulah Gaddis
and Margaret Seeley worked in the
candy kitchen, they happened to think
that it was April Fool's Day. So they
took about ten cents worth of candy
and mixed some Cayanne pepper with
it. They saved the candy and took
it . to the dance to treat everybody in
the evening. You ought to have seen
the wry faces that were made over that
candy. They fooled almost everyone
in the house that they treated except
Mr. Pickett. The reason he did not
get caught was because he got a tip
from one of the boys who was fooled
before they got to him. I tell you it
was lively around that dance hall for
a while.—Margaret E. Seelye.
¥ ¥ ¥ «
SCHOOL DIARY
same routine of work this week. Clar
ence Shutt, Victor and Maxine Gaddis,
Arthur Montrose and Albert ' Kapotsy
were working at the print shop all
week. Also Beulah Gaddis, Rosa Matz
ne «W „„piuda P^c tica iiv 4,
and Louise Belohradsky worked all
week at the office. Max Beavers, Tru
man Benthall were working at Mr.
Martin's getting the chicken pen ready
for the chickens. Mr. Martin has bot
twelve White Leghorn chickens, six
teen weeks old. They are of the two
hundred sixty-five to three hundred
egg strain. They came directly from
Mr. Ferris, of Palm.Beach, Florida.
They are to be used for demonstrative
purposes. Mable Synoground and Em
ma Kapotsy worked at the hotel wash
ing dishes. Ruby Synoground, Laura
Merrill and Ruby Smock wrapped
bread at the bakery all this week. Ben
nett Babb, Earn Jones, Truman Bent
hall, Roscoe and Fredrick Busick,
Charles and Robert Lee, Clifford Syno
ground, Chas. Miller, J. T. Green, Fred
Smock, Elroy, Norgard, Brooks Mer
rel and Freddie Tackett chopped wood
for the Cafeteria and also cleaned up
around the school workshop. Laura
Synoground, Sophy Marchick, Alice
and Rachel Jaques, Edna Neal, Cather
lie
man, iviaxme Uadciis a
rill worked at the Cafeteria
dinners. Bennett Babb
Miller made benches for the
John Dougherty watered the
Herald Kemp, J. T. and Willie
Green, Clifford West worked at
dairy. Beulah Gaddis, Mildred St.
and Beulah Miller worked at the ca
kitchen, making the Colony candy.
Nellie Kemp worked at the kindergar
ten. Margaret Seeley gave violin les
sons. — Bennett Babb.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Nellie Kemp missed several days of
school on account of illness.
- —,
CO-OPERATIVE STORE SUCCEEDS
(By The Federated Press)
In three years time returns invest
ment to stockholders.
The return of practically the full
capital invested in less than three
years is the record made by the co-op
erative store in So! fang. This institu
tion is owned by the people of'Sol fang
and vicinity; practically everyone in
the community belonging to the asso
ciation „ and sharing in the profits.
Solfang is a successful co-operative
£* Sft% »T Ä
Barbara, Calif.—Fellowship News.
FRANCE STILL PLOTTING
AGAINST RUSSIAN PEOPLE
(By The Federated Press)
Vienna. — A new insurrection in
South Russia has been planned for the
moment when the Genoa conference is
in session. The perpetrators believe
an uprising when Russia confronts the
capitalist nations in conference will in
jure the prestige of the Moscow gov
ernment.
The Rumanian town of Benderi has
been selected as the center of the move
ment. Machine guns, cannon and
small military formations are being
concentrated there. The Ukrainian
royalist, Scoropatsky, is to participate
As tentative leader the French have
suggested Grekov, a pan-Russian gen
eral now in Vienna.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
Plant Them Now!
Australian
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way as egg-plant
Mach resembles the latter-—except
that by many colonists it is<
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
«allure with sach packet of seeds.
" The colonist who introduced Aus
tralian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW!
Prise—50c ftfr packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
Erie Labor Press
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50.
Trial Subscription—10 weeks, 25c.
The Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
'Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY—
;
(Do You Want Her?) j
"A Girl That's Different" is a re-j
print of a playlet written and played j
by Llano colonists. .
It contrasts the new girl, as exem-!
A FREE EARTH-The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQUITIST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash.
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Fre*.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
Meanderings
By Robert K. Williams, D. C., Ph. C.
Voliva, oveifseer of the Zion colony
across the lake from Chicago, is fine
"copy." He keeps himself and his in
terests constantly in the public print.
He has invented "painless dentistry."
While the dentist is* extracting the
tooth, at the crucial moment, he jabs
a pin in he leg of the sufferer and in
stantly the victim forgets his tooth and
rubs his leg.
The power of suggestion is beyond
understanding. The mountain coming
to Mahomet may easily be understood
if the power of realization is suffi
ciently developed. The moment, one
realizes a thing, that moment the ob
ject becomes a reality. They say, "you
are well." It is repeated often. When
the time comes that realization becom- j
es a fact, then the body is well. Can't I
be otherwise. The fanatic is corre-1
spondingly dangerous for the reason
he realizes his thoughts and knows that
they are true. He acts on knowledge
which to him is true.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
We do only the things we want to.
Couldn't do anything else. Little Babb
driving us through Louisiana late at
night, took the wrong road and halted
at the edge of a swamp. He said: "I
thought I was right." Job Harriman
said: "Of course you did, Babb; you
would not have taken the wrong road
otherwise." A philosophy summed up
in this.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The hypnotist says, and you say af
ter him: "I can't open my hands; I
can't open my hands"—and you can't
because you don't want to.
* * * is
The entombed dead of the great
Woodlawn cemetery are noisily dissol
ving into the primal elements in hous
es fit to house the greatest monarch
of earth. Noisily! Yes, had you the
ear of the microphone the breaking up
of the tissues, the explosions of gas, the
burning and dying of animals feasting
on the helpless flesh, would make you
think that a cataclysm was taking
pl ace
's ¥ ¥ ¥
of the Fear thoughts of those behind t
and the spirit of competition control
ling life in trade.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
One man had his name graven deep
on granite, and M. D. followed it. The
thought was raised whether he expect
ed that his profession would be a part
of him when he got into the beyond.
They say that there is no sickness or
death there. Useless vanity, but van
ity after all. He was proud of his pro
fession..
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Four people stood at the foot of a
grave and tears coursed down their
cheeks. The newly-turned sod gave
evidence that a loved one had passed.
What were they crying for? Their
loss. We are selfish in our joys as
well as in our sorrows. Do we mourn
for the departed or for something tak
en out of our lives? It is a selfish de
sire to keep a joy. The desire for hap
piness is wound up in the feeling of
sorrow.
¥ ¥ * ¥
When a loved one leaves us we
grieve for ourselves, not for them.
Soon that grief passes and another in
terest takes its place. Time is a great
destroyer. One of the best things that
Time does is to smooth out the jagged
edges of grief.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Evidences of belief in immortality
abound everywhere in this palacial city
of the dead. It will continue "as long
as the lips of love kiss the lips of
death." It doubtless will take an entire
ly different form from that of our con
ception. The conception is limited to
the limits of our imaginations. We
fashion our gods and angels after the
images we know. We cannot go be
yond the imagination. The Wisdom
that controls the Universe and the souls
of men very likely has a different role
for the departed to play from what we
imagine.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Death does not stop the struggle for
; human supremacy. The offspring of
j the buried dead raise monuments one
after the other, each striving to show
uniqueness and distinction, represent
j ing honor, greater than that of his
. neighbor. Here is a shaft of granite
forty feet high; twenty feet away is
another fifty feet high, with carvings;
a few feet farther on another 75 feet,
rising out of a granite base carved with
exploits of the departed. Strife, com
petition, vanity, superstition every
where!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Cyrus the Great, entombed in a gi
ant mountain, 3500 years ago, the face
of the rock for a quarter of a mile
carved with a record of his exploits!
In Woodlawn we read "Member of the
Zouaves '61, battled on the heights
and overcame." Overcame what?
what was victory for one was defeat of
another? And we are all the children
of God. The Allied nations prayed to
God thru field representatives known
as chaplains for victory over Germany ;
Germany prayed to heaven for victory!
* ¥ ¥ ¥
The god of battle was prayed to in
ancient time for victory, and the fallen
monarchs ascended to an ambrosial
heaven because their gods had been
assuaged; the other monarch, fallen,
pierced by the javelin of the other mon
arch, went to a similar heaven because
his gods had been propitiated. And
the cause of it all, a piece of land, a
gold-filled temple, or a producing peo
ple! But those were barbarians.
Surely!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Woodlawn cemetery is a colossal col
[ ection tombs bones anl decaying
human flesh. The sanitary-minded
P erson walking thru and observing the
ven ' ; s _ thru which noxious gasses are
'escaping to the air, says the dead will
be the death of those living. The ghat
in India seems cruel, because we are
unused to it. We have refined it and
the body is rolled into a furnace of
living fire. Ashes in a moment—a jar
holding a handful of bone dust, calci
um, lime, takes its place in the long
line. When Fear of fire is removed
thru understanding, there will be more
incindierators built. However* we must
not forget the tomb maker, the casket
maker, and the death trappings maker
must live!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The great cemetery, built on a great
rock, sinks into insignificance when the
Great Wall of China is brought to mind.
Over mountain and valley for 3500
miles it winds, and a thousand bodies
to the mile are buried in it. There
were no ceremonies at the burial. They
were worn out and useless workmen
and were buried on the job. Their
monument has stood for a thousand
centuries.
* * *
The disposition of the dead is a ser
ious problem. The graves of the early
Chinese interfere with agriculture in
, at impoverished land. Land that
should be cultivated is covered by mil
lions of piles of earth ; only cultiva
t [ on between the graves is allowed by
, e s P* r ^ s « A few paper prayers ,on
the wheel of fate, handed out by a seer
to grieving relatives has held back the
advancement of that race.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Right at the head of Wall Street
stands an old church ; it covers a block.
A little further on is a grave yard and
stones indicate that early New York
settlers lived there and died in 1812,
1796 and even before that. They had
names; half of them have vanished
through the erosion of the stone. Those
churches and grave yards in the midst
of the most expensive city of the world
keep back progress. China hasn't so.
much on modern New York. In China
they are superstitious; in New York
they are sentimental.
if, tf, 9$
After all change comes slowly. All
about us are replicas of the ancient.
People of to-day are very much as they
were five and ten and twenty thousand
years ago. Environment has changed,
that's all. Rocks and soil change more
readily than the thoughts of men. Men
are imitating the things of the past, and
the first anthropoid ape hanging by his
tail and steadyiny himself by a pre
hensile thumb made love to his furry->
coated companion in much the same
way as the moderen flapper is enter
tained by the ribbon-counter salesman
of modern New York.
PATRIOTIC (?) PERSECUTION
UNIVERSALLY ABHORRED
(By The Federated Press)
London. — British workers have be
gun to voice their indignation against
the continued imprisonment in America
of men sentenced for war-time opin
ions. They are asking why in letters^
to the General Council of Trade un
ions; the British Labor party; the Brit
ish foreign office; the American am
bassador; and to President Harding.
Agitation for the American politicals
is gathering momentum in all the big
industrial centers here—Birmingham,
Manchester, Liverpool, Southampton,
Sheffield, Leeds, Hull, Cardiff, Glas
gow, Edinburgh.
WAGES BUY LESS NOW
THAN THIRTY YEAIS AGO
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago. — "Deflation" of railway
employes' wages is unwarranted arid
unjust because the rail and other work
ers of America never received "inflat
ed" wages, according to data submit
ted to the United States railway labor
board by B. M. Jewell, president, rail
way employes' department, A. F. of L.,
as a part of the shop crafts' argument
for an increase in wages.
Economists retained by the employ
ees to make a thorough study of in
flation and deflation have established
the fact that the only marked effect
of these processes on wages is a weak
ening of the bargaining power of labor
during the deflation period.
What Is a
Co-operative
Farm?
The Llano Co-operative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS? ,
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY ?
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type of co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co -operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attractive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery. tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as broom corn, peanuts, or other produce
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education of his children, the co-operative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
the child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is that some co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get onto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In this section, a very small acreage, is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries and farms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—IF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want to live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If, you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-operative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colony.
$15.00 an Acre
It is said that a man and his family can live on five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel — board and
Llano ^ ERl oerative Colony
eesville c i ty hts^o- - Louisiana
jäs no 300 st?,
places of mer;
car shops, was t
Atland from here w
ding in that city r?
Co-operation and
Actual Brotherhood
Comrade George D. Coleman, speak
ing at the psychological meeting at
Newllano on Thursday evening, March
30, made the statement, that co-opera
tion is actual religion, practical reli
gion. It involves the application of
the golden rule, the principle of bro
therhod. This principle is mutual in
character, and it requires reciprocity
from everyone who wishes to enjoy the
advantages of co-operation and bro
therhood. No one can claim special
privileges where brotherhood prevails,
and it is silly gush and entirely out of
place, to ask exemption from the labor
involved. To "love thy neighbor as
thyself" does not signify by a long
shot that anyone should love anybody
else better than one's self, and that
anyone should work for others who de
cline to reciprocate. No one can de
mand the prizes of co-operation and
brotherhood who will not observe the
rules of the game, practice reciprocity,
and evince the spirit of friendship.
Co-operation and brotherhood mean
working together and for one another.
This has been stated again and again
in the pamphlets and publications print
ed and sent abroad by the Llano Col
ony. The Colony is not in a position
to take in people who are unable to,
do anything useful in promoting the
work and objects of the community. I
Anyone having obligations in the out
side world which he considers para
mount over the implied duties to be
assumed at the Colony, should not
come and expect to become a burden
upon the co-operative pioneering
group.
To provide food, clothing, shelter,
entertainment, education and recrea
tion for hundreds of people requires
work, first, last, and all the time. No
other honest way has yet been dis
covered to provide these indispensable
requisites of human existence; and
until such a way is found, every one
will have to buckle down to do some
kind of useful work that the Colony
can now provide, and which will assist
in achieving the goal.
For ages the workers have struggled
to escape from the snares of the ex
ploiter. But all in vain. They have
looked to all kinds of leaders and sav
iors for deliverance. To labor union
leaders, to politicians—but all in vain
and without any success worth while.
Co-operation also has been tried to
a limited extent, but failed to measure
up to the expectations of the pioneers
because the people apparently have
lacked the understanding needed to
treat each other with the ordinary
courtesy and forbearance to make their
intercourse pleasant and agreeable.
Unless co-operation and association is
congenial and yields satisfactory re
sults, it cannot be maintained and per
petuated for any length of time.
Friendliness of spirit is one of the
important bases on which co-operation
depends. "Love thy neighbor as thy
self" demands a certain disposition
and attitude on the part of every
would-be co-operator. This» is a very
important point that advocates of ec
onomic betterment have overlooked.
Their attention has been riveted on the
outside, on the environment, the ma
terial things, the so-called opportunities
—while the actual obstacle to improve
ment in human affairs is located with
in, consisting in wrong ideas and wrong
emotions. And if any improvement is
to be effected, the beginning will have
to be made at that point.
Character building requires the
broadest possible latitude of individual
initiative for each man and woman to
exercise their own reason, affection,
and will in ordering their own life, in
obedience to the highest ideals that in
spire them. The conception of respon
sibility for one s self can develop and
. i ,i • t
mature only thru exercise. lemper
, . • •. il
ance, moderation, reciprocity, a baianc-.
« w j u . i L
ed lite, in a word, selr-control, can be
gained only thru freedom of choice.
Ignorance, bigotry, untruth, and dis
honesty, embodied in statute, that ham
per, obstruct, or deny such freedom of
choice are directly responsible for the
degeneration of mankind. It makes no
particle of difference whether such dis
regard of the principle of human self
determination is imposed in the name
of emperor, king, or a majority rule,
it is the very essence of tyranny. The
eternal principles of nature and right
eousness do not change with the name
with which despotism is camouflaged.
fraged. '
That is one reason why the people
at Llano Colony are interested in men
tal science and in the study of human
nature. They realize that the success
of the whole co-operative movement
depends upon the cultivation and de
velopment of desirable human charac
teristics. Character is the touchstone
of all human achievement. What a
man is and what he can do is of the
greatest moment. The man atid the
\yoman are estimated by their useful
ness in the Llano Colony, and not by
the clothes they wear, nor the slick
J palaver they may be able to spout. Ser
v ' ce keynote, "Deliver the
Goods, the essential requirement, and
good taste dictates simplicity in rai
ment, which brings a person's loveli
ness into greatest prominence.
At the present pioneer stage of Col
ony enterprise, especially, is undue
and ostentatious display of finery out
of place. The fashions are a cunning
device of capitalists to get access to
your pocket book and waste unneces
sarily money that, especially at this
time, can be used more beneficially for
other purposes.
Attention must be concentrated on
the here and now, on the essential
things that we can do now, and are
engaged jn working at. To give at
tention to abstract propositions that
are now beyond our reach and have
no bearing on the task in hand, is sim
ply a waste of energy, that can be more
profitably invested in boosting the
work in hand.
We must make sure of all the facts
connected with co-operative effort. The
complete requirements of all industrial
enterprises and the reciprocity and mu
tualism to be scrupulously observed in
every one and all relations, arising out
of and connected with integral associ
?i 10n ' are so manifold anl indispensa,
I t0 suc ^ es j u ' achievement that w<
are compelled to give them our undi
vided attention.
The Llano ideal is a working propo
sition, and the colonists do not expect
nor plan to achieve their aim in any
other way except by plain, straight-for
ward constructive work and produc
tion. No one here intends to be para
sitical, nor to be victimized by para
sites, and any four-flusher or grand
stand player who may imagine that
we are a dead-easy bunch has another
guess coming, and will be up against
a hard proposition if they come here
and try it on.
Nature, the creative energy, life, or
call it anything else, if you please,
compensates the individual or group in
accordance with the intelligent work
done. It only responds to the con
structive activity of the intelligent
worker. Cheats, swindlers, thieves, or
robbers may despoil him or them, but
the only naturally rightful title to any
handiwork of man is proportionate la
bor performed, corresponding to the
effort required for its production.
Just as the worker erects a buiiding.
fashions a plow, other tool, or piece of
furniture, according to the idea he has
m mind, and acts upon, so also a man
or woman fashions his or her self,
builds character, according to the traits
of character exercised, and the course
which they pursue to gain their liv
lihood. Only the useful worker is pro
ductive and constructive. He gains
his living honestly and is prepared
and in*a position to fully compensate
for whatever products or services he
enjoys at the hand of other workers.
While those who do . not render some
appreciable, necessary, essential, use
ful and helpful service are through
and through dishonest, no matter how
they may delude themselves and sponge
on the useful workers.
Individual right conduct is the foun
dation and cornerstone of successful
co-operation. Whoever is not ready
to act on the square with his fellow
co-operators is not yet ready for a
co-operative colony nor for the co-op
erative commonwealth. Neither one of
which is possible of realization until
honesty and the golden rule become
the guides in human conduct.
AMERICANIZATION
Some time ago the third annual con
vention of the Oklahoma Educational
. . . , i • L r\ ,
Association was held at which Dr. las.
T T . . n t i e. . ¦ •
J. ligert, United otates commissioner
? . , , . ,,
or education, spoke of the problems
, . , .
which present themselves in the pro
cess of "Americanization" of' foreign
ers. He declared that the blame ought
to be laid with the American citizens
who disdain to associate with foreign
ers, and call them such names as "da
goes," "frogs," "wops," and "bo
hunks," and encourage their children
who are compelled to associate with
the immigrant children in the public
schools to call them such names and
to despise them.
Tigert scored t' 3 American soldier
in France who ridiculed the French,
Belgians, English, and Italians, and
told stories concerning the cowardice
and other undesirable qualities of the
people and soldiers of these nations.
"America will never justly earn the
name of the greatest nation in the
world unless this snobbish attitude is
dropped forever, and a system off ed
ucation is instituted where all may de
rive the same benefits and be treated
alike.
The man who never changes is ab
surd.— Barthélémy.
MAN TO MAN
A* Open Letter to Charles E. Hughes
By Chas. L. Robinson.
At the outset, I shall assume that
you recall our conversation in regard to
the banking laws of the State of New
York, after the panic of 1909, and its
result—a revision of those laws. At
that time you were the governor of
said state, and I was in the banking
business, in a position to see how that
panic was manufactured. I had no
axe to grind in those days and I have
none in these days. I am non-partisan
and non-sectarian. I not only want
justice for myself, but want to do jus
tice to all; and if that is not the one
and only basis for the "100% Amer
ican" and for a citizen of the world,
I shall be glad to receive further light
on this phase of the subject.
So much by way of introduction,
with the promise that this will be my
last communication to you except by
your request.
I now start with the premise that the
original purpose of the founders of this
nation was "to establish JUSTICE,"
and I propose to apply that premise to
tnfe following situation:
OUR Government required say $25,
000,000,000, or its equivalent in cred
it, for war purposes, and obtained the
amount by issuing pieces of paper call
ed BONDS, bearing interest, and se
cured by the total wealth of the nation ;
Such Credit may be described as the
capitalization of Confidence and Good
Will, with that "total wealth" as col
lateral, and is the result of the total
activities of all of the people of the
nation, as a going concern; yet our
Government authorized a few of the
people, called bankers, to exact a profit
from all of the people, at a cost of
untold millions of dollars;
That cost, p|us interest that will
amount to the face value of the bonds
(judging from past experiences), plus
leases to small holders through depre
ciation, forced sales through calling of
loans by banks, plus interest paid to
banks for borrowing OUR credit (re
ferred to in the preceding paragraph),
plus the cost to the ultimate consum
er of the amount EXEMPT FROM
TAXATION.
That last provision alone, assuming
that the constitution is for just, equal
and good laws, is evidence enough that
the bond issue is un-constitutional.
Then, take the facts that the Govern
ment promises to pay the face value
of these bonds in GOLD—a promise
, f £
; that " cannot fulflU and was awa »"e of
j the ^ when it made the promise;
sm f e " exam Ple is omnipotent," what
sha11 be salcl of such an example by
a Government or a man?
What then was the alternative?
Obviously if pieces of paper called
bonds, secured as above described, are
good, pieces of paper Called currency
secured by the same total wealth, and
NOT BEARING INTEREST, are bet
ter. Axiom: No thing is settled until
it is settled rightly (justly), and it is
never too late to right wrongs.
Enter EQUITY, and Equity says
RESTORE.
Proposition: All that I have, the
savings of a lifetime, is invested in such
interest-bearing, tax-exempt bonds, and
I hereby agree to exchange such bonds
(now at a premium) for their face val
ue (cost to me) in currency notes OF
THE U. S. GOVERSMENT, but not
"bank notes," nor Federal Reserve
Notes.
In Equity, it would be in order to
say "Provided holders who have paid
less than par shall receive what they
paid and no more, and that any 'pre
mium' shall be ignored," but I waive
such provisions.
Assuming then, that Congress de
sires to pass some "bonus legislation,"
such refunding would bring at least
twenty-five billions of dollars in sight.
NEW JERSEY FARMERS
ORGANIZE TO CO-OPERATE
. (By The Federated Press)
New York. — New Jersey, farmers,
tired of paying tribute "coming and
going," to the interests which control
farm supplies and through which they
have had to market their products, now
are organizing not only to market crops
collectively, but to buy their supplies
co-operatively. Thru a committee of
the State Federation of County Board's
of Agriculture, they are forming a far
mers' state purchasing association, thru
which county and even smaller groups
of farmers will buy their staple sup
plies.
100% AMERICANISM (?)
DEGRADES WORKMEN
(By The Federated Press)
New Orleans. — Conditions on the
ships visiting the port of New Orleans
demonstrate how completely the La
Follette seamen's act has been scrap
ped, though this law still remains on
the statute books. The humane regu
lations of hours and working condi
tions imposed by the La Follette act
have been supplanted by long hours
and wages representing the starvation
level in the port of employment.
Once a Month
Every day we receive letters from friends of the Colony who express a
desire to help us in some way, but who are unable to take out a membership
or join the 125-CLUB; and, until now, there has been no way for them to do
so. Now comes a comrade with p . suggestion for a systematic plan by which
our many supporters of small mean;- may assist in the up-building of the Colony.
We are now compelled to spend much of our time and energy in produc
ing articles for sale in the local markets in order to meet current expenses.
There would be no objection to this, if we were building only for ourselves;
in fact, we should then extend such business to the limit. But we are not
building for ourselves alone; our plans are far greater than that—we are build
ing for the thousands who are to come—we are building for YOU, Comrades.
And every hour we spend in manufacturing products, for sale outside of the
Colony retards just that much the progress of the Colony as a whole. Every
minute of our time; every ounce of our energy, should be put forth in the
actual work of building and clearing and preparing for you, who are to come
later. The more we are able to do this, the sooner you will be able to join us.
There are also many of our friends who, for various reasons, will not
make Llano their permanent home, but who, nevertheless, wish to see it grow
and be a successful demonstration of the theories they have always believed
in. Now it is possible for them to assist the movement in a practical way
Llano
Dollar-Up
Club
Acting on the suggestion of this comrade, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
has been formed, and we now invite our thousands of well-wishers through
out the country to take advantage of the opportunity thus offered them.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB is composed of comrades who pledge
themselves to give a dollar or more a month, the money to be used to meet
current expenses. These expenses are comparatively small, the most of our
food and necessaries we produce for ourselves; but there are some things
that we must buy and pay cash for.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB will do this for US and allow US to
keep on steadily building for YOU.
We are expecting you, comrades, to help us prove to the world that we
are right. You may depend on us to do our very utmost—may we depend
upon you?
If You Cant Help a Lot,
HELP A LITTLE!
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
Newllano, via Leesville, La.
THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page I)
cent rains it has made extra work for
our laundry crew, but both Mr. and
Mrs. Beavers, with their crew, Mrs
Kemp, Cox, McConuel and Maschick,
with some assistance from Mrs. Nash,
are able to cope with the situation.
More laundry is now Bfeing done than
ever bofere and the equipment is en
tirely inadequate for the quantity of
work that passes thru this industry,
This will be offset by a new building
and equipment, we hope, soon. The
print shop put the Colonist in the mail
to^ay and are working on the Co-oper
ator. The magazine is somewhat de
layed because some of our regular con
tributors are tardy in sending in their
work. Cantrell tells me that he is
afraid he will not be able to put out
a May No. of the Colonist, because
of the lack of help. Often we are crit
icized for things that get into our pa
pers, but if you knew the rush that al
ways prevails at this shop you Would
wonder how Gleeser, Buck, Cantrell
and Newman with the assistance of
Rose B,, Mrs. C., and some of the
school children are able to turn off the
amount of work they do. We certain
}y need help at the print shop. We al
so need and need badly a shoe maker, -
several brick layers, carpenters, and
lots of farmers. In fact we need both
men and women who can do any use
ful work to almost an unlimitel amount.
Comrade Gayer, the inaugurator of the
DOLLAR-UP CLUB, is sure on the job.
The last three days' mail has brot us
several new members for the club, thru
his efforts. Homer Loutrell is champ
ing at the bit to get his whole electri
cal plant moved and going. He has
moved the apparatus over to what used
to be the tool shed, and it begins to
look like Homer is starting opposition
to the store. The algebra and agricul
ture classes took up the greater part
of the evening after supper, and it is
a real pleasure and inspiration to see
the large numbers of colonists who go
to these and other classes. Truly,
Newllano is a great school that is bound
•to attract the best minds of our coun
try. Those who fail to attend meet
ings and classes; who are not interest
el in advancing themselves and others
are missing a great opportunity. And
I believe that there is not a single col
onist that does not attend some of these
classes or educational meetings.
I
' Saturday, April I. — Another very
beautiful day and everybody seems to
be trying to see just how much work :
he or she can lay behind them. The
children are my special care on Satur
days, and we generally lay plans for
this day which hover around, the swim
ming pool about noon. Needless to
say, some work always precedes these
swims and thqjlunch, and I am usually
the only delinquent one in the bunch.
My bosses conspire against me on these
days and seem to find so much work
around the office that I only get out
to the pool in time to eat. But when
I get there, lunch is ready and then
I grow happy.again. We eat; later
we take a swim and have a real good
time at water sports; then back to the
Colony for more work. To-days work
was to make garden ground fit for
Irish potatoes and plant half of them,
this April 1st in the light of the moon.
Now, in two weeks we will plant the
other half in the dark of the moon,
and later we kids will let you know the
results. Also we planted more than
three dozen rhubarb plants which were
donated by outside friends. John Stave
from California, joined the 125-CLUB
and the Colony, where he wishes to
stay. Comrade Stave is a cabinet
maker and carpenter, and he started
work at once. Comrades Mrs. Cryer
and Mrs. Wright have opened up the
long-expected and wishel-for cloth
making establishment. Yes, on the
old hand methods. Most of our indus-;
tries have been started in this way, and,
then grow to the machinery and fac
tory stage. So be it with this one.
They are now carding and spinning
cotton, and later the weaving of cloth
will be done and we shall be reliev
ed of the clothes-buying burden. This
fall when the sheep are added to our
herds, we will lay the foundation for
making wolen clothing. I suppose la
ter someone will raise silk worms and
we will make clothes from it, ,too.
There is nothing too good for the work
ers, so why any limit to what we wish
to have? Well, my every-day duds
suit me for the time being, so "we
should work"—and we don't. We
children had a good time to-day and
closed the day by going to the danc
ing school at seven-thirty and having
a good time at the dance until nearly
eleven oclock. A farewell to Mrs.
Blair, Mr. and Mrs. Cox and Mr. Kunz
who are forced by circumstances to
leave us for" a time. We shall be glad
to see them return as soon as they
can make it convenient to do so.. Now,
where is that shoe-maker to take Com
rade Cox's place at the shoe shop?
Where is the laundry helper to fill Mrs.
Cox's place and who is going to hem
stitch the table linen and boss me
around in Mother Blair's place? I give
it up and go to bed and see what the
morrow brings forth.
Sunday, April 2.—I feel like throw
ing a brick at Ole; he routs me out to
take a two days' auto hike, and I do
not like to be roused out of my little
rut. We took Loutrell and Kling, with
us, drove first to Longville, where we
left Kling to take the auto load of
electric wire back to the Colony. Well
Kling "delivered the message to Gar
cia" and we drove on to Lake Charles,
Orange, and Longville. No, of course,
not for fun—who would think of such
a trip and call it fun ? We are still af
ter more equipment for our electric
plant, and we looked at boilers, en
gines, machinery, and water pipe nu
til I felt I should blow up or become
an electron (whatever that may be).
You see, we had money given to us by
a visiting comrade, with which to buy
an electric plant and a good one, so
we are just trying to find what we want
and need the more. Lots of sawmills
are shutting down as well as other
plants and we want boilers, engines and
alternating current generators. Yes,
we want two alternating current gen
erators, one from thirty to fifty K.V.A.
then later we want one several times
larger. Do you know of such a gener
ator to be had, that is good? We
want a three phase if possible and it
must be first class and cheap, too. So
speak up if you know , of one. Also
- „ . . • . . ,
We ^ l ° mStal1 a ~ Water works ^
tem this summer. So we are in the
market for about two miles of 4-inch
water pipe for the purpose of piping
the water from the big spring to a re
servoir at the Colony. These two ne
cessary improvements will furnish
many home comforts that most of us
had to give up when we came from the
city to the pioneer life of the Colony.
As we do without some of these con
veniences right now, we see in the not
far-distant future all of them in use
here. Our hard struggle is over; the
world's has just begun. I mean by that
we have gone thru a pioneer stage,
both physical and mental that the fu
ture holds out to all mankind, and you
will have to go thru it some day. The
physical you can probably avoid by
coming here with us or by joining in
such a co-operative at some other loca
tion; the mental pioneering you can
not avoid, unless you have already
passed thru that stage. There is a big
lesson to be learned before most of us
are ready to co-operate with others.
It is not an easy thing to lay aside our
old false ideas and ideals and take on
the new. Our suspicion, greed and
jealousy, planted and grown into a ma
ture crop, is not so easily weeded out;
yet they must be before we are ready
: f or complete co-operation. I sometimes
shudder when I think of what the
world must go thru before the brother-,
hood of man is established. And I at
the same time realize that it can all be
brought about thru the practical me
thods we are employing here. The
question is are you ready for it? If
not, don't try it until you are ready
to cast everything else aside, burn your
bridges behind you, and direct ail your
energy to bring about your ideal, the
co-operative commonwealth. It is the
only worth-while job I know of and
there is nothing that can tempt most of
us away from it. Just think for a min
ute what else there is beTore us worth
half so much. We are growing to it,
and we are striving to make the path
easier for you, our comrades, who will
come later and at the same time we are
anxious to make our demonstration a
big one and soon. That's why hours,
energy, money, or anything else does
not count, as compared to our every
day accomplishments in co-operation.
¥ * * *
Monday, April 3. — Plowing was
begun again at the Lamb place, where
we expect to raise our corn this year,
and Comrade Smock and wife will
there to look after the place
The tractors are hauling wood and
making haste while the weather is fa
vorable. John Hoover, our fence man«.
told me that we now have 750 acres
of land under fence and 14 miles of
fencing built. Most of this fencing is
of woven wire and put up in perman
ent places. Comrade Coleman recent
ly sent away and ordered some special
trees. The mulberry and Custard ap
ple trees are here, and he has planted
them. . Now, I never ate a custard ap
ple, but if they are anything like cus
tard pie, I want to say right now that
Comrade Coleman has my everlasting
thanks. Mulberries grow wild down
here and his new varieties are sure
of success. A box of books just ar
rived from Comrades N. L. and E. N.
Clarke, of Virginia. Many new and
useful books are being added to our
library and other useful things that are
donated by our friends all help to build
up a permanent parent colony that will
in time back its off-spring. This must
be our procedure* and will be followed
out as rapidly as we are able to fin
ance the project. To-day, while at
Lake Charles, a big lumber company
offered us thousands of acres of good
land and a town already build, with
city water and other necessary im
provements, almost at our own price.
There is no place in the world where
so many big openings are now open to
us as here in Louisiana. I know of
thousands of acres of good land for
agriculture, also hard wood timber,
-and three towns with good improve
ments. Don't you see how easy it will
be for us to establish large groups in
these places, just as soon as we can
raise the funds to keep up our pur
chase payments. One thing we are al
most free from and that is paying in
terest. What little we do pay is to our
own comrades, and doesn't amount to
much. This Colony is a great school,
where co-operation is being taught and
practiced; where men. and women are
being trained to point the way to the
future co-operative commonwealth. It
is a necessary schooling to prepare our
selves for a practical method of estab
lishing a civilization that can and will
function in the interest of all human
kind. What difference what others say
about us when we know we are doing
the best we can and are sure our ideal
is right? Justice for all with no favor
itism to any. It is not hard to get, if
the individual will educate himself to
service and not ask for more than he
expects to give. Can you do it? If
you can, you are ready for co-opera
tion.. If you can't, your path will be
hard in the very near future until you
learn the game. Honesty of purpose is
the first necessary thing to become a
real co-operator; without the motive
being right, the individual can not ad
just himself to a right condition in so
ciety. This has often been proved by
those who have left us, sometimes in
the heat of anger; others who have
ben wrongly advised; some who have
allowed false ideas to take hold of
them for the moment—but these peo
ple nearly always come back, or at
least hold true to the ideal, and some
day will come back or at least help us
in carrying out our general plans.
These are the ones whose motives are
right. The other type who are looking
for self-betterment, or their own self
agrandizement, take a fighting attitude
and seek out every little fault to mag
nify and advertise to others who are
not in sympathy with our ideals at all.
We are always puzzled to know what to
do with such cases; we do not wish to
work a hardship on anyone, and yet
these persons sometimes stoop to al
most any depths in their desire to "rule
or ruin." Your motive is the determin
ing factor as to whether you will be a
co-operator or not. Those who are
still greedy, suspicious and jealous
be easier,
should conquer their fault before com
ing here. We have too much work to
do at present to take the time of ad
justing your personal faults. Yes! We
are willing to spend the time if it will
do any good; but the individual is the
only one who can really do the job. As
our economic condition becomes bet
ter, we know this self-adjustment will
Tuesday, April 4. — This week's
diary has been hard to write as many
other duties as well as unlooked-for
responsibilities have fallen upon the
shoulders of "ye lady reporter," and
she heartily begs your kind indulgence
if she has garbled the job in any way.
Sometimes these things must be done,
and they are done only thru a forced
condition which is unnatural, and are
likely to be a little off-colored. So,
again, pardon for this week's effort.
Now, to you, my comrade, who are in
terested in what we are doing, are you
really interested in seeing a new civil
ization started? Do you believe in the
brotherhood of man? If so, what are
you willing to do to bring it about?
Think for a minute what this group of
people are doing. They are giving all
their time, their energy, their finances
and many personal luxuries, in order
to carry out their ideal. They are not
asking any one to insure their future
success or happiness. They are striv
ing to make a world success of this pro
ducing co-operative scheme, that all
may see a better life and enjoy it.
Now, if you believe it, why don't you
back us now with your finances (all
of which will be invested in product
ive property'), and later you owe the
members here you physical assistance
as well, in carrying out your ideals.
Comrades, this is no idle appeal. Cap
italism is breaking down, banks are
failing, business firms of long standing
are now financial wrecks, that a few
years ago thought themselves financial
giants. Labor is being deprived of its
rights to work, our human brothers
and sisters are being dispossessed and
starved on every hand. With land
and tools upon which and with which
to work all of these miseries can be
avoided. We are working to relieve
this condition through practical dem
onstration of co-operation in its true
form. You can help to make this de
monstration a speedy and far-reaching
affair. Will you do it? How, you
ask? In sending your spare cash to us
to invest in land and tools for the use
of those who will come to labor with
We must provide the necessaries
of life—food, clothing and shelter,—
and, „at the same time, expand our op
erations in order to take in those who
want to join us later; thousands of
people would come now if we were in
a position to take care of them. And
here is where you can help. Join the
DOLLAR-UP CLUB and let us make
this movement a national and even an,
international club. Get subscribers to
our publications and let people read
Readers' Column
AN OLD COLONIST SPEAKS
Dear Comrades and AS:— .
•I thought I would drop you a few
lines and let you know I am still back
here in the Buckeye State. You can
bank on me paying balance,on my
land by May 1st, as far as I know now.
[He has paid $160.] I sure like the
new Colonist—just like a letter from
home. The Diary keeps one posted
of the work from day to day. I think
you have the right idea in putting it
up squarely to the prospects, so they
about a real solution of their problems.
Buy a room at our new hotel and let
us continue to make good homes for
those who are working for this great
ideal. Buy land, if you wish, and hold
it for future use (not speculation) ;
take out y an installment membership,
and send in whatever spare cash you
have from month to month; buy a
membership and pay for it in full if
you have the cash, and if you can not
come for a year or two, send some one
else in your place who wants to come
but has no money to come on; lend
us your spare cash and let us put it
to constructive use in the interest of
your ideal. These are the best ways to
help and we want you to do all you
can and do it now, while the big op
portunity is here to do it. It is a
world problem and it will take a world
of determination and thought to do it.
We know the way now and want your
support. In the name of future human
justice you and all the world should
do ALL YOU CAN to point the right
way. May 1st is approaching and we
want $24,000 on that date to make our
annual land purchase. What will you
do toward this purchase by that time?
To accomplish your ideal you must do
all you can at all times for it, an dwe
want you with us in this movement.
Are you with us now?
EAGLE MIKADO"
Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made in five grades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Llano 125 Club
Is YOUR Club
Don't merely WATCH It Grow - Get In and Help!
Do you intend some day to make Llano your home?
Do you want a comfortable dwelling and the conveniences of a modern city
when you come?
Of course you do.
Then join the LLANO 125-CLUB immediately. This club is YOUR club.
Its purpose is to furnish the cash with which to build a place for YOU. We
will do the pioneering; we will do the actual work; but you must supply the
necessary cash.
125,000 Dollars will completely finance this Colony. It will give us com
plete ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with which to
u 0Ur " lode i rn Clty " II W1 " 8 ive steady employment to several thousand per
sons and lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will
permit us to admit people who are good co-operators and are willing to give
their labor and moral support to our undertaking, but have not the money
with which to buy a membership.
THISw I p" 1 Tk 5 ""il 0 " 5 u P!ed8e themselves t0 furnis ^ 1.000 Dollars each
THIS YEAR. This w,ll enable us to do in ONE YEAR what is would take sev
eral years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with
your help we can do it much sooner.
th n a w n0 Al PaSe n r W u!. f L ind a liSt ° f th0Se who have already joined
Club, and this will be published frequently, so that you may note its pro
gress. But don t merely WATCH it grow—get in and MAKE it grow.
On May 1,1922, Llano Colony will have been eight years in existence
an within the last two years we have made more progress than durin- the
previous six years. lne
What will we do in the next two years?
THAT IS UP TO YOU!
Let the Colonics Hear from YOU today
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEES VILLE, LOUISIANA
know what to expect. No use going
around the bush about the work, etc.
Tell them what we have and what we
expect of them, and it will appeal to
the REAL co-operator. You sure have
made some progress since I left the
Colony.
I think of you all and the Colony
every day. I send nothing but good
thought-waves out to the Colony. I on
ly wish I were situated to go back, but
can't just now tell when. You see, my
father is almost an invalid and he needs
my Jielp here now. But I hope and ex
pect to someday get back home. I
see you have some propaganda leaf
lets; you can send me some of each
of them if you will; I will try to place
them in good hands. Regards and best
wishes to all.
MILO HENNE.
A BIG CONTRAST
G. T. Pickett, Stables, La.,
Dear Comrade:—Ever since I look
ed over the colony, I have become more
and more convinced that it is a good
thing; and I see the essence of capital
ism more plainly than ever before.
What a contrast it is! On my way
home, when I reached Lake Charles,
the first thing I noticed was a police
man at the station with a gun and a
club. When I reached Jennings, there
was another at the depot loaded down
with artillery of several kinds, and the
Sheriff had a blood-hound trailing a
thief who had broken into a store the
nisht before.
But when I got to Stables, a comrade
met me at the train with a kind word,
showed me around, made me acquain
ted, got me a good room in the hotel,
and I felt at home, just as if I had
come to see some of my relatives. And
the more I think about it, the more I
want to go back.
When I reached home my friends
wanted to know what I thot of it. I
told them it was all that was claimed,
and far more. Some said there must
be a graft somewhere. No man would
quit a job of $400.00 a month and take
up with that job. I replied: "They
want to show the world that co-opera
tion can be practiced successfully, and
they ARE MAKING GOOD."
I think you people are doing a grand
work. I never heard an oath nor a
smutty word; never saw a man whip
a dumb brute; everything was kind
ness to man and beast. No policeman;
no justice of the peace; no lock-up;
no preacher—you are not talking re
ligion, but practicing it.
I see a great 'future for the Llano
Colony. I can see in my mind's eye
brick buildings for homes; I can see a
stately school house; I can see a hap
py, prosperous people—all on the same
equal footing. After looking over the
Colony, I stood on the hill, which is a
beautiful place for a town, and, look
ed eastward. Over the office door I
read "Llano Colony," and it came to
me it ought to be called "Rescue"; for
it rescues people from capitalism.
People .ask me lots of questions that
I can't answer. I am not supposed to
know; I know only that which I can
see. But things will work out as you
get to them. But I believe, by the
heart you people are putting into the
work, that it will certainly turn out all
right. And you people have so good a
time, the very way to keep members at
home; for they can have their fun
there, and will not have to go away to
find enjoyment elsewhere. I think the
amusements and social life will be the
backbone of the Colony in time.
Yours truly,
O. V. Peebler.
P. S.: I forgot to say that our w|gon
maker wants to know if you can fur
nish wagon timber of any kind or all
kinds and at what price. Wagon tim
ber is very scarce in these parts. Please
send me a price list, if you have it
GERMAN AND FRENCH
WORKERS MEET FRATERNALLY
(3y The Federated Pres*)
Berlin. — German and French la
bor have common aims and are not in
terested in reparations and the war pol
icies of their present governments ex
cept to oppose them. This was the
sentiment of the speeches and resolu
tions adopted at a joint mass meeting
here of the French, German and oth
er European Communist parties. Ten
thousand German workers attended.
Marcel Cachin, editor ofL'Humanite,
and Clara Zetkin were the principal
speakers. Representatives from Eng
land. America, Russia, Czecho-Slovak
ia, Poland, the Balkan countries, Swe
den, Switzerland and Denmark also
spoke.
AN INVITATION
If you receive a sample copy of this
paper, it is an invitation to you to sub
scribe. Some friend of yours has ask
ed us to send it.
Sample trial subscription is ten cents
<ti cn° nl v Regular subscription is
$1.50 a Year; five cents a Copy.
A WEEKLY MESSENGER FROM v THE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
The Llano Colonial
MEMBER THE FEDERATED PRESS
To expound the
co-operation that
be formed to emulate
Llano Co-operative Colony.
:
Vol. 1.
PRICE FIVE CENTS— $1.50 YEAR
PUBLISHED AT LLANO COLONY, LEESVILLE LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1922.
The Colony Diary
Being a Daily Report of Colony Life at Llano.
Wednesday. April 5. — A letter to- j
-day asks the question "What do the
«women do?" I am well acquainted
nvith many of the men, but don't know
lut little about the women." The wom
an's worl" here is very useful; but as
yet women have not entered into such
work as agriculture, horticulture, build
ing and construction, and work of that
kind. However, I predict they will in
îhe hear future take up trades and
professions, the same as the men. And
%vhy not? Our women are useful
-workers and not ashamed? to get out of
the parasite class. In order to intro
duce the women to the inquirer, we will
start with the poultry farm, where Mrs.
l,inn and Mrs. Rooney work with their
husbands in building up the poultry
department. Over at the dairy we find
Mrs. Baldwin and Miss Cryer who
both help with the general dairy work.
Miss Cryer expects to make dairying a
study and fit herself to become a teach
er in this line. This you see is the
starter for women in the farm work
At the school we have Mrs. Martin,
Mrs. Green and Myrtle Kemp. Mrs.
Martin is a general teacher in the
school ; Myrtle has charge of the Mon
itessori kindergarten and Mrs. Green
helps in the cooking classes and do
mestic science. At the hotel Mother
Crawford presides and starts her day
about 4:30 a.m. by getting breakfast,
assisted by Mrs. Ferree. Later Mrs.
Babb and Mrs. Synoground get dinner
and are relieved in the afternoon by
Mrs... Matz, Mrs. Downs, and Mrs.
Reeves, Mrs! Jones and Mrs. Ed. Mer
rill also help to prepare the tables for
meals and Mrs. S. Merrel does the
chamber work. At the laundry Mrs.
Beevers has charge (of her husband,
too), and is assisted by Mrs. Kemp,
Mrs. Marchick, Mrs. McConnell, Mrs.
Nash, who keep our clothes clean and
mended, and they have an enormous
lot of work right now, too. At the
print shop Mrs. Cantrell and Rose Bel
ohradsky help the men to get out our
papers each week and do the^ other
print shop work, such as being print
«rs' devils," etc, At the sewing room
Mrs. Rhodes has charge and is assist
ed by Mrs. Laangridge, Mrs. Jaques,
Mrs. Lee. Mrs. Loutrell does mending
in her home. They do all the Colony
sewing of all kinds. At the store Mrs
Gaddis and Mrs. Sanders work each
¦sday, their various duties ranging from
assisting the baker to running the store
and the men who work there. At the
¦general office, Mrs. Dougherty, Mrs.
jNorgard, Mrs. Gault and Gertrude
West keep themselves useful in various
jobs. Mrs. Cryer has just started t0
spin cotton and she is assisted by Mrs.
"Wright. Mrs. Montrose, Mrs. Kling,
Mrs. Smock and Mrs. Busick and Mrs.
Scharrer are taking care of young
babies. Mrs. Çuno is our librarian and
is assisted by Gertrude West. Mrs.
Tackett is not working at present.
These women are all performing use
ful service and of course get assist
ance from our larger girls. The coo -
ing of meals, waiting on tables, work
ing at the laundry, doing the chamber
work, are most useful and honorable
positions in our community, and any
•woman -who turns up her nose at these
useful occupations is out of luck here.
Music to-night became intoxicated and
rampant. Beginning with the mando
lin club we ran thru the scale—band,
orchestra and choral practises. Any
one who desires to learn music can
get just what he or she wants and
without much effort and without cash.
Sounds funny, but is true, just t re
same -> * * * *
Thursday, April 6. - A beautiful
sunshiny day, and all nature smiles.
Our gardeners have caught the dis
ease and as I look around I see the
opening also enlarging in the faces
of our farmers. Now if old Jup
will give us two weeks qf such weather
we will promise to get our corn, cane,
and peanuts planted. Possibly th
sorghum and peas might also e pu J n *
Well, Thurman, Paton, Benton, bolo
mone, Gault and Messenger are in the
garden early to-day. It may e
are trying to c ? .tch the late worms
but I suspect they are there to push
this garden work. We are sure gett.ng
, a nice supply of fresh vegetables each
day and it relieves expenses, too.
Jones, Marchick, Phillips, Busick, Bu
hre, Lloyd and Fred Anderson are
again clearing land like good fellows.
And Kepotsy is using a tractor to plow.
Kemp is also using his four mules on
another gang plow. Baldwin, RoWe
and Green are rushing the work at the
Dairy and hog ranch and the little pigs
and calves are in fine shape. Soon the
farm settlement will be built out west
of us and a real live community will
there be established. Hoover, E. Mer
rill and Krug are making fence as fast
as they can and I can see where a car
load of wire will soon have to be bot in
order to help them finish their job. The
brick crew, Downs, Scharrer and W.
Beavers, are just about to finish the
roof garden job as far as brick work
is concerned. Langridge Sr., Rech
steiner, Lee, and Williams are starting
to build the stair way. It begins to
look as if bad roads are going to cheat
us out of our logs for making the lum
ber to finish the job by May Day, but
we haven't given it up yet. We will
hope for better roads. Carl Hoover
and D. Cryer are running the big plan
er, while Comrades Oakley, Stave,
Wobler and Ole are getting out window
and door frames and doors. Loutrel
and Sanders are repairing Fords, while
W. Langridge and Siemens are work
ing over the Fordson. Kling took the
Wallis tractor on a jaunt after wood
for the big boiler. Oh say! that fel
low Loutrel has pestered me so much
lately that at last we have ordered our
electric generator and soon our hous
es will be lighted with, electricity ànd
much of our machinery driven with
the same power. The laundry, print
shop, shoe shop and dairy will ge'
quick relief by this excellent move.
And to think a comrade visiting us was
generous gnough to donate this excel
lent present. With such an assistance,
we don't grow—we just jump for
ward. Water works is cur next big
improvement and >yith $3000 we can
supply a really efficient plant. Com
rade Cuno and wife are two persons
who do not appear in my "diary" very
often. Y qu see these comrades are
not on the pay roll; they pay their
own expenses and the work they do is
all to the good of the cause. He acts
as Colony reporter and such, and
she is our librarian. Of course she
petmits him to root around among the
books just to please him. Anyone who
wishes to do so can be useful and do
good work, even tho they don't make
much noise or get "writ up" in the
Diary. Mr. and Mrs. Smock move'd
to the Lamb place to-day an dthe three
older children moved into the new bun
galow near the Gault house. Van and
Nash have been bitten by a building
bug, and are now starting a new house
just east of the Beavers home. No,
our Beavers are dry land beavers; they
don't live in the river, even though
they do run the laundry. Comrade
Rix and Von Scio are now building a
big Jog wagon with eight-inch tires.
The psychological meeting met to-night
with a big attendance. People who
wish to see "into *the heart of this Col
ony can do so by attending these meet
ings. Our problem is psychological
in the main; and those who just try
to solve it by physical means are sure
to fan. Service is our greatest power
and the politician is defeated as soon
as he or she begins to play that game.
* * * *
Friday, April 7. — The sun shines
on and the green leaves on all the
trees are again out in their beauty,
while the blossoms are calling to the
bees to enter their store house and
partake of them. Mother Nature is
lavish in her supply and all that is ne
cessarv for us to do is to know how to
co -operate with each other, and the
"very best the world can give is ours.
Earl Young said to a friend of his, when
asked the question, "What will you do
-if the Colony goes up the flue"'—-"The
Colony is a hive inhabited by a breed
of co-operative bees who are particu
larly sensitive about anyone taking
their honey—but should anyone come
along and put their foot through that
hive and chase the bees out, I have
confidence that they will retain their
instinct and swarm again elsewhere.
Now Comrade Young has hit the nail
on the head; we are in this movement
to stay. Nothing is half so important
in life as the carrying out of .one's
ideals—and ours at this time are very
(Continued on last page)
REAL PHILANTHROPY
By Elîa Wheeler Wilcox
Aye, that is a story that takes one's breath,
How the men rowed out in the face of death ;
Rowed as calmly as fishermen may
Who haul their nets at the break of day.
But never was fish hauled in the weather
That rifle and cannon and shell together
Rained on those sailors who drew from its bed
The wise sea, serpent and crushed its head,
Heroes of war are they! Song and story
Shall add their names to the list of glory.
Byt where is the story and where is the song
For the heroes of peace and the martyrs of
wrong ?
They fight their battles in shop and mine,
They die at their posts and make no sign.
And the living envy the fortunate dead
As they fight for a pittance of
butterless bread.
They herd like beasts în « slaughter pen;
They live like cattle and suffer like men.
Why, set by-the horrors of such a life.
Like a merry-go-round seems the battle's
strife;
And the open sea, and the open boat,
And the deadly cannon with the bellowing
throat—
Oh, what are they all with death thrown in,.
To the life that has nothing to lose or win—
The life that has nothing to hope or gain
But ill-paid labor and beds of pain?
Fame, where is your, story and where is your
song
For the martyrs of peace and the victims of
wrong ?
MAY DAY PROGRAM FOR
COLONY ANNIVERSARY
The program for the celebration of
the Anniversary of Llano Co-operative
Colony is being shaped by Comrade
Harry Bell, who volunteered to handle
jthe day's festivities.
May Day, which comes on Monday,
will mark the completion of Llano's
eight years of existence.
j May 1st, 1914, five worthy pioneers
with one team, a cow, and a few chick
'ens, trecked 25 miles from the railroad
at Palmdale, California, and settled on
the arid Antelope Valley in the Mojave
desert, thus establishing the first nu
cleus of the Llano Colony. In three
years the labor transformed the plain
to a busy, thriving community of a
thousand souls, but lack of water and
other uncontrollable circumstances
forced them to seek a new location,
and Vernon Parish, La., offered by far
the most promising situation and na
tural resources.
After four years in their new loca
tion, another transformation has taken
place. Huge piles of used and broken
lumber have been cleaned away, big
sheds have given way to new buildings
and a mile of wooden platforms and
boardwalks have been removed and a
cane patch of some ten or twelve acres
now takes its place.
Hundreds of acres of stumps have
been removed from hill and bottom
lands, so that now farming is done with
tractors and gang implements. A dairy
has been built up, and 1 scores of indus
tries are now located on the townsite
near the depot known as Stables.
Thousands of people have heard of
Vernon Parish and hundreds of them
have been here to look it over, since
the Colony settled here. True, some
of these have not stayed, but it was no
fault of Vernon's nor the Colony's that
all could not see the possibilities which
are now quickly being realized.
The real secret of Llano's success
in recent years, since they have brot
their Colony to a point where every
thing they own is free of encumbrance,
and where the commercial world rates
their ajssets around $255,000, this se
cret is found to be in the affection and
respect held towards each other.
This year more than ever before, the
Colony will celebrate its birthday with
almost perfect harmony, due to the dis
covery of the fact that to co-opetate
with one another, they must understand
more of the workings of the hunian
mind. The study of mental science for
almost two years has accomplis!
ALLIES' TREACHERY
AGAINST RUSSIANS
Genoa (by cable).—George Chich
erin, Russian foreign minister, and the
Russian delegation to the economic con
gress, which opened here April 10,
have been deliberately isolated by the
Italian authorities at Santa Margher
ita, about 20 miles from Genoa.
In order to give the wrong impres
sion to European workers they have
been lodged in the Hotel Imperial, the
most expensive hotel in this section.
They are under constant surveillance
under the pretext that it is necessary to
protect them from hostile attacks. They
are continually watched even while
out shopping. A representative of the
Italian government is living at the ho
tel, ostensibly to look after their inter
ests, but in reality to watch them. Op
posite the hotel an Italian battleship
lurks ominously.
The Italian government is paying the
expenses of the British, French, and
Jugo-Slav delegates, but not the expen
ses of the Russians. Situated as they
are at Santa Margherita, they have no
facilities for reaching Genoa except au
tomobiles. The railway time of nine
ty minutes and the delegates have to
make the best of the facilities afford
ed. It is becoming more apparent
that the isolation of the delegation has
been carried out in accordance with
plans previously made by the allied au
thorities in conjunction with the Italian
government. •
Nevertheless, the interest in the Rus
sians is tremendous. Thousands are
making the pilgrimage to Santa Mar
gherita hoping for a glimpse of Chich
erin and the other delegates.
The delegation includes a former
Kerensky minister as military expert, a
former Kolchak minister as an interna
tional law expert, aijd also non-Com
munist experts in finance, economics,
and transport, thus showing that Rus
sia is united and desirous of helping
in the reconstruction of Europe and
Russia.
Labor is represented by Rudzotak,
secretary, All-Russian Trade Union fed
eration. Russia is the only govern
ment that has its Genoa representativ
es directly chosen by the workers.
wonders along this line at Llano.
Tentative arrangements for the day
will include sports, speaking, music
and song in the morning; beef dinner
at noon; foll^ dances, baseball game
in the afternoon; dancing, pictures*
and social time in the evening.
Llano Dollar m Up Club
Swings Into Fast Strl
Enthusiastic Letters Show That Llano !dea
Is Gaining Ground; Many Want to
Help With Dollar-a-Month-Up
THE LLANO 125 CLUB
IS ALSO GROWING
The LLANO 125-CLUB, a group of
comrades who promise to jojn the Co
operative Colony thîs year and thus
"supply the funds needed to complete
the Llano program, as outlined in an
announcement on another page, is still
growing. ?
Three more names were added to the
roll this week, these comrades being
Earl A. Young, J. R. Brown and Geo.
A. Sandeïs.
The Llano 125-CLUB now boasts
15 members. Here they are.:
THE "125-CLUB"
Tom L. Potts
A. B. Dawley
W. G. Dunegan
Harry C. Hall
D. W. Van Schoick
John Winters
J. B. Mars
Robert Wurfer
Homer Clark. '
Bert Busic
V. C. Clowe
John Stave
Earl A. Young
J. R. Brown
Geo. A. Sanders
See the announcement about the
Llano 125-Club on page 8.
COLONY ENTERTAINERS
PRESENT SPLENDID PROGRAM
"Ye editor" is running short on su
perlatives when attempting to describe
the quality of the offerings the audi
ence at the Dixie Pride playhouse at
Newllano are regaled with regularly ev
ery week on Sunday night by "bur mu
sicians, vocalists, character imperson
ators and elocutionists. The talent
appearing on'the boards is so varied
and of such "a high quality that super
latives alone can do them justice and
adequately express the appreciation
and gratitiide of all beholders.
The program on Sunday night, April
ninth, surpassed any previous enter
tainment. The music of the Junior Or
chestra alone was a grand treat. A
tunneful duett by Mrs. Gaddis ànd Mrs.
Martin, accompanied on the piano by
Prof. Martin, was a superior perform
ance. Dawson Cryer and Johnny Ger
sey recited like little heroes. Llano
Colony boys are not afraid to face an
audience and can talk right out in
meeting! Our neighboring friends,
Valrie Brogdon and Ruth Brogdon al
so recited two lovely pieces and scored
a success. The Irish sketch by Com
rades Montrose and Jaques was a
scream and the hilarity of the audi
ence was immense. And then came
the children's chorus, our children ,as
fine and classy a bunch of kiddoos as
there is anywhere the world around.
Comrade Sutton's Shakespearean de
clamation was in excejlent taste and
well received. And then Miss Beulah
Miller, a new member, appeared on
the scene and danced a Highland fling
to perfection. It was great all right.
And after heil fine performance appear
ed our own unique Harry Bell upon
the scene with the ditty "I love a las
sie," assisted by a bevy of lovely girls,
introduced by Prof. Martin as the Im
mortal chorus—which we hope will
prove true, as Pastor Russell's Bible
Students boldly proclaim that millions
now living will never die—in three
years from now. The chorus consisted
of the Misses Louise Belohradsky, Rose
Matz, Maxine Gaddis, Vinita Thurman,
and Mildred Seelye. A fine bit of act
ing and singing all right. Comrade
Martin sang "When the Kye came
Hame" in his finely trained baritone
voice. The Junior Orchestra complet
ed the evening's entertainment. You
did fine, folks, everyone of you! Many
thanks all aroünd.
NAPOLEON HILL AND DR. R. K.
WILLIAMS KICK THROUGH ,
WITH TEN BUCKS EACH
Five new members for the LLANO
DOLLAR-UP CLUB this week. This
club is appealing to all comrades who
wish to see th« co-operative common
wealth established, but who cannot de
vote their personal time and labor to
its building.
Napoleon Hill, editor of Napoleon
Hill's Magazine, and Dr. «R. K. Wil
liams, managing executive of Mr. Hill's
publications, both write in this week,
each enclosing ten dollars each for ten
months.
Besides the regular donors whö have
promised a Dollar-Up a month, the
following new ones chip in this month
with their dollars: Henry Mueller, D.
Henderson Howell, F. W. Miles.
THE "DOLLAR-UP CLUB"
Here are the DOLLAR-UP
CLUB members who have chip
ped in thus far with their April
donations:
Frank Gayer $1.00
Mrs. Rose B. Blair $1.00
L. L. Rhodes $1.00
A. C. McKinley $1.00
W. E. Patterson , $ 1.00
Augustus Robinson $1.00
Mrs. L. Dillman * $1.00
William Andraska $1.00
Mrs. Blanche W. Briggs $5.00
Henry Mueller $1.00
D. Henderson Howell 1.00
R. K. Williams 1.00
Napoleon Hill J .00
F. W. Miles - 1.00
.. WHAT THE DONORS SAY
John B. Mais says: "The Dollar-Up
Club is great, and I am doing all I can
to help"—and he is, too.
Here are letters from Napoleon Hill
and R. K. Williams:
'Enclosed is $10, which credit to
the DOLLAR-UP CLUB.
'I certainly am delighted to contrib
ute to this fund. I wish it were $10.
000. If the folks on the outside will
really take your request in earnest, to
contribute to this fund, and actually
DO IT, it will not be long until your
internal expenses will be taken care of.
When you get the fund sufficiently
large, the other income you receive
will be applied to the bigger things.
Whoever originated the idea deserv- j
es a gold medal. The dollar will not
be missed by anyone drawing an ordin
ary salary and certainly will help you
solve your problems there.
"With all possible good wishes for
the success of this plan and for yVf?~
all collectively and individually, I am,
"Fraternally and cordially, m
Robert K. Williams, D. C., Ph. C. ft
"My dear Mr. Pickett:—Your pa
per comes to my desk regularly and I
read it with interest. Your "Dollar-Up
Club" plan caught my eye. and I am
enclosing our check for $10.00 to ap
ply on this fund for the next ten
months.
Youi^ work down there interests us
very much because we, too, are apply
ing the Golden Rule in the publication
of Napoleon Hill's Magazine. I am
for anyone who is for the people.
"Our good friend Bob Williams, who
is now the Générai Manager of our
publications, says for you to come to
New York and spend a spell with us so
he can give you a good shot of Chiro
practic.
"You will always find the latch
string on the outside at our offices.
Come when you can and stay as long,
as you wish.
"Cordially and fraternally.
Napoleon Hill."
Will you be one of the comrades
(Continued on page 8)
em
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way as egg-plant
Mock resembles the latter—except
that by many colonists it is
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Pull instructions for planting and
«¦skurs with sach packet of seeds.
* The colonist who introduced Aus
„¦aüan Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLÜ LA.
Erie Labor Press
i. 17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50.
Trial Subscription—10 weeks, 25c.
The Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQU1T1ST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash,
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
jWf (Do You Want Her?)
"A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts the new girl, as exem
i Llano Colony, with the fussy,
artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nent of the rebuilding of Llano
another page. Here is the oppor
you have been looking for. Turn
it now.
an
m
By Robert K. Williams,
Milukoff, fotmer minister under Ka
rensky, escapes bullet of assassin, bul
his frieftd Editor Naboukoff is killed
while trying to shield him. Old offi
cers of the czar are said to be respon
sible. Grievous as it is, it is a relief
to know that* it wasn't an emissary
of Lenin.
# * ¥ *
Shooting anyone never settled any
thing permanently. All the deaths of
the past have but iittSe effert on the
trend of affairs. Sparticus was stab
bed to death by a spy on the battle
field, and the contrary happened. His
cause grew stronger. Lincoln grow in
strength after the assassin's bullet laid
him low. Garfield was removed by
Guitau and the nation hardlynoticed
it. McKinley was shot and a stronger
man took his place.
* * * *
A railroad man said that the nation
would go to pieces when E. H. Harri
man died. For five minutes the rail
roads over which he had control stop
ped in honor of his memory. They
have been going constantly ever since.
* * * *
The death of a man has little effect
on any going institution, and much less
upon the affairs of government,
a man has done good, and he dies, his
influence becomes enlarged as time
goes on; if he has been a nonentity,
he will sink into oblivion, just as the
other billions of humans.
* * * *
Papers now say that Lenin has got
cancer, but that famine conditions in
Moscow demand his attention and he
cannot attend the conference at Gen
It is odd to notice the slant put
V
upon this by the headlittfer, "Lenin
Fears to Go," intimating that he is
shirking danger. Do they really want
to see this genius slaughtered?
* ¥ * *
A hectic flush is that redness char
acteristic of lung trouble. It comes us
ually in the afternoon, and is wrong
fully called hectic, meaning habitual.
Those trained in facial diagnosis even
now become confused if watching
crowds of women on Fifth Avenue fil
ing along. No, doctors, the women are
not a race of tubercularst but wear the
hectic flush at so much per heck pro
cured at a nearby drug store.
* * tfe *
It is amazing, it is funny, and it is
pathetic to see some,who are bedecked
with paint and powder. Literally one
can see thousands looking as if they
just came from behind the scenes. It
is a grand thing to be able to wear
the decoration without an internal
blush.
Amundsen, the Arctic explorer, is go
ing to take with him in his five-year
cruise in the Polar region a powerful
radio telephoning and telegraph outfit.
He also will take along two stout air
planes to make short investigatory
trips. Should his trip be long enough
delayed he will be able to add the new
est of airplane devices, the helicopter,
which permits the plane to rise and de
scend vertically.
If he should wait long enough the
long trip could be entirely avoided with
its attendant hardships. The airplane
will soon be able to make a complete
circle of the polar regions and return
from starting point within a week. A
photograph could be also ihade of the
entire journey.
Jules Vernes did not visualize the
present airplane, but he did see some
thing that looked like a helicopter,
which he claimed could be shot thru
the air with the speed of a rifle bullet.
Most of VerneS' predictions have al
ready come true. The new safety de
vices on the ships now in use make the
longest trips quite possible,
The transcending news of the day is
the wireless development. The papers
are full of it; programs are printed
daily, and for the week of broadcasting
stations; inquiry columns have been
thrown open; columns relating to dis
coveries in wireless are regarded as
especially important; magazines, staid
and conventional are printing stories
of radio; new magazines are being put
on the market and great circulations
are being built up,
The Archdeacon of the Yukon wants
a sending and receiving station instal
led in Alaska. He says that the talk
ing phone would make the long Alas
kan night a time of instruction and
pleasure.
Poor Landru, who is said to have
killed eleven people in Paris, lost his
name when he lost his head. He is
burried under the name of Henri De
sire. His children changed their name
to Remy. Petty vengence is responsi
ble. He desired publicity during his
life time, and the authorities seek to
make him unknown by leaving off his
name on the tombstone, and instantly
the story becomes internationally fam
ous. Landru, finally was given the re
cognition he always craved, uninten
tionally, albeit.
* f * *
High rents in Chicago have vacated
5,000 flats, the) tenants leaving for
the woods at the first breath of spring
Some such exodus is needed in New
York. Apartments that rented former
ly at $35 are now renting at $90;
those at $50 and $60 now being $156
and $175. Wages have not advanced
in commensurate measure. It is re
markable how people can continue to
pay such rents, but they do.
* * * *
It is figured that $2,636 is neces
sary for each worker to earn each year
to keep the average family. If the
foregoing figures are necessary how it
it possible for the thousands to live
who are certainly not making half this
sum?
* * * *
The Bohemian twins, joined together
from the first lumbar to base of sac
rum, Rosa and Josefa Blazek, are dead.
The expected operation to preserve the
life of one was not performed owing
to the brothers' objections. Whether
it would have been successful is more
than problematical. While each had
individual organs, there was but one
They left $100,000. The law, by
lawyers, is not satisfied that they are
two separate entities, and a great deal
of research, precedents, etc., will have
to be looked up before determining
how much the 12-year-old son will re
ceive out of the estate. Even the mo
therhood of the boy is being brought
into doubt—the abstruse question as
to which one was the mother, or if
either was-capable of being a mother
is to be settled legally. Precedents
must be looked up, tho this is the first
in recorded history, whether a living
issue came from such a twin.
* * * *
Business is not yet settled. Some of
the bigger New York hotels are adver
tising for patronage, and the rates
have reached almost a pre-war basis.
When retailers of goods and services
know that wages have been reduced
and more men out of work than sever
al months ago, prosperity of a tempor
ary nature will return.
UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE
BROTHERHOOD ORGANIZES
COUNCIL IN LOS ANGELES
Wednesday night, March 29, Los
Angeles Council of the U. C. B. was
organized with a membership of thirty,
and with good prospects of increasing
this number to a hundred during the
month of April, and eventually into
several hundreds.
Great interest has been shown in the
southern metropolis, and there is eve
ry reason to believe that the new coun
cil will be exceptionally strong. It is
fortunate in being started by a group
who understand very thoroughly the
principles of co-operation, and who
want to build up the educational and
entertainment features.
A corps of organizers is being train
ed to go into the field and establish
other councils as well as to increase
the membership of the first council in
the southern part of the state.
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA WANTS
LOCAL COUNCIL OF U. C. B.
Howard Whaite and others in San
Jose have taken the initiative in form
ing a local council, and Organizer Al
anson Sessions is assisting in getting
enough members to form a local coun
cil in the prune capital.
Those taking the lead in San Jose
are seasoned workers for the co-oper
ative commonwealth, and understand
the plans and purposes of the U. C.
B. thoroughly. The necessity of edu
eating before anything else can be
done, is realized, and it is apparent
that the San Jose council will be high
ly constructive.
I Announcements
Sunday.
Choir Practice, 9:30 a.m.
Esperanto, 11:00 a.m.
Mental Science Study, 6:30 p.m.
Program at Theater, 8.00 p.m.
Monday —
Children's Mental Science Class
at 6:30 p. m.
Orchestra practice, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday. —
Card Party, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday. —
Music Classes: Wind instruments
6:30; Strings, 7:00; Vocal,
8: p.m.
Thursday. —¦
Esperanto, 6:30 p.m.
Psychological Meeting, 7:30 p.m.
Friday. —.
Night School, 6:30.
Agricultural Class, 7:45.
Saturday. —
Dancing class, 7:30 p.m.
Dancing, 8:30 to 10:30.
What Is a
Co-operative
Farm?
The Llano Co-operative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY?
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type of co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co-operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attractive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery, tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as broom corn, peanuts, or other produce
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education of his children, the co-operative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
»he child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is that some co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get pnto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In this section, a very small acreage is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries ana iarms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—JF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want to live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try . to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-opêrative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colony.
$15.00 an Acre
It is said that a man and his family can live on five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel —- board and
room.
Llano Cooperative Colony
eesville - - - Louisiana
Intelligent Planning
Excludes Worrying
The people who have gathered and
banded themselves together at Llano
-to develop the co-operative common
wealth (en miniature) are indebted for
•every success achieved to accurate
thinking. And whenever they failed
Ao accomplish anything aimed at, it was
found to be due to a lack of under
standing of all the elements involved
•and the exact treatment that the oc
casion required.
Whatever has been done by any
man in the world's history before un
der given conditions, for an individual,
can be repeated, for a group or na
tion, provided those who make the at
tempt familiarize themselves with all
ïhe procsses and methods that must be
-•employed, practiced, and set in opera
tion for performing the work to be
<k>ne. All the buildings in the worid
Iiave been erected by the labor of hu
man beings, be it hovel or palace. All
tools, mechanical devices and mechin
¦ery have been shaped by the hands of
man from the cllumsiest output of the
savage to the master pieces of the skill
ful modern mechanic. In my travels
-on three continents I never saw any
thing utilized for human subsistence,
entertainment or enjoyment that has
not been made available by human la
bor, the originator of all social values.
There is nothing miraculous or sup
erhuman about the task the colonists
lhave set for themselves. It demands
only faithful and intelligent applica
tion to the work required, and in due
«course of time the greatest and best
idal of materiality can be wrought out
an actual fact.
Nothing ever just happens in the
-world. There need be no uncertainty
-of the outcome of any human endeav
or, if preceded by intelligent planning,
based on the essential facts and when
carried out in due accordance with na
tural causes and agencies. When er
roneous preconceptions are discarded
and the subject is studied honestly
-and without bias, correct conclusions
must be reached.
Everything that we need to eat, to
¦wear, houses for us to live in, the con
veniences and enjoyments of existence
can all be provided by our own labor.
The one thing which we cannot pro
duce here—is money. In the first place
because we have no gold mine here, the
onlly thing that the government will
coin for the owner and has fixed a de
finite price upon. Second because all
•other issues of money have been reser
ved by the government for itself and
for a privileged class of bankers, and
the people in general can get such mon
ey only "on terms dictated by thé bank
*ers who dominate commerce and. in
dustry.
If the Llanoites work faithful and
harmoniously together in accordance
-with the technic of production and con
struction, they can provide themselves
abundantly with everything that the
Sieart can desire. But if they obligate
themselves to pay money by going in
«debt for anything they purchase in
wholesale houses, they jeopardize their
future by doing so.
Living out of the store is a very ris
ky and expensive proposition, because
it involvs a number of profits to middle
men, as well as money obligations to
creditors who may levy on the property
and collect these debts through tkh
and collect these debts through the
wrecked any number of private and co
operative enterprises and will continue
to do so until peoplle will forego all
purchases in the commercial world °n
he basis of deferred money payments.
This is the only way that money mon
opolists and commercialists can get co
operators into a corner and squeeze
the life out of them.
The successful farmer always lives
almost entirely upon what his own
iarm produces. The farmer who lives
out of the store is most generally on the:
lagged edge of poverty.
Forty-three years ago when this writ
er was traveling in northeastern Ari
zona a storekeeper at the Horsehead
Crossing of the little Colorado river
told him, that some of the Mormons in
the nearby settlement of St. Joseph
during an entire year would not spend
more than five dollars for store goods.
A good example for pioneers to imitate.
Safety first should be the slogan for
every resident co-operator. "This is
My Colony" should be the attitude of
everyone towards it, and I will not
do anything or leave anything undone
that can in any way endanger the ab
solute safety of my colony venture.
Its success depends upon my vigilance
to guard its security on every hand.
Forethought alone cannot result in right
action. Each act in the nature of
things is followed by its own definite
and predetermined consequences. A
truism that has found expression in the
commonplace saying, "As ye sow so
shall ye reap," formulated by science
into the basic "law of causation." Peo
ple fail to appreciate the functioning
of this law in social and economic
affairs ; and all disaster in their
activities can be traced back to
this oversight. "Social evolution does
not depend on the random wishes or
arbitrary ordinances of men, but is the
result of unseen agencies or forces
which are as eternal and as immutable
as are the principles, processes, or laws
which govern so-called physical phen
omena,
All the ills of mankind spring frorp
two preventable afflictions. To wit:
The greed to gain material wealth at
the expense of others, and the lust to
wield arbitrary domination over them.
And the latter is chiefly aspired to for
the tribute that can be extorted or the
services that can be expected from
people.
The natural productivity of the crea>
tive forces in nature, when intelligent
ly utilized, are amply adequate to pro
vide abundantly for every individual
öf mankind. Conform to this natural
law of plenty and there will be no oc
casion to worry about the future.
"Seek ye first the kingdom (conform
to the principles of social and econom
ic harmony), and all else will follow
as a matter of course."
If you will look back in your life,
you will find all of your troubles arose
from an insufficiency of' knowledge.
And any success that we as colonists
can achieve in the future will depend
upon our getting all the facts in the
matter and then so acting and deport
ing ourselves that our every effort will
be constructive and crowned with glor
achievement. Everyone should
try very hard and persistently to be
come an accurate thinker and then act
in conformity with every principle of
righteousness in all affairs of mankind
and in his own personal life. It is the
only way of permanent happiness, to
world peace. It is a genuine religion
that will) unite the world in bonds of
indissoluble brotherhood. As Ernest
A. Norris expresses it in Unity: "How
grand it is at last to know what the
great aim of religion stands for; that
it is to society, the race, that we owe
everything; that it is in our power to
pay our debt of infinite gratitude ; that
our hope can be attained; that cur
ambitions can be realized, not perhaps
as we had ignorantly imagined in an
other life, but here on earth; that the
great races are to us the correlate on
which we can lean in times of need, in
times of sorrow, and the great cause
to uphold, to live fcr and bless human
ity as the author and perfection of our
being in all its wonder, beauty and
mystery. At last we know that it is
the race's influence upon us and our
dependence upon it, our instinctive
love for it, which are the factors that
produce in us the sublime feeling which
we recognize as religion. At last we
see that immortality is in the life of the
race; that the highest, truest and most
beautiful nature is the religious nature.
Here is the peace that passpth under
standing anl which is within the reach
of every human being.
"One ship drives east, and another west
With the selfsame winds that blow;
Tis the set of the sails,
And not the gales,
Which desides the way to go.
"Like the winds of the sea the ways
of fate,
As we voyage along through life;
'Tis the will of the seul
That decider the goal,
And not the calm or the strife."
The Americn Consumer pays 27 bil
lion dollars for that for which the farm
er receives 9 billions But con
ditions are now at such a point that
both producers and consumers feel
there is something radically wrong
with the business of marketing products
t ». -, I . . . e>. « —
1 a ou j lme 1 e American Con
Tmf 1 ; St ° PP -i, pay ' n " tf'bute to the
encan mi eman, which is one of
the causes of the high cost of living?
—(Earle William Gage.)
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLAHR, Nature Cure
Author, says;
"Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
land question from the Henry George
viewpoint, I felt that there was some
thing wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the little things over
which we stumble every day that we
don't see. You are the first one who
has harmonized the land problem and
the wage question—Henry George and
Marx."
A concise, ciothbound volume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
rency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, La.
A FEW FLASHES
AS FOOD FOR THOUGHT
By Chat. L. Robinson.
All human problems are reducible to
the single question, "What is the na
ture of mankind?"
Strange to say, to the extent that
each individual answers that question
for and by himself, to that extent he,
or she, answers the related question,
"What is the nature, or attributes of
God," hence the potential power of
that ancient advice KNOW THYSELF.
Here then is the clue for any gov
ernment which really desires to educate
each child; to lead out its personality
and the individual monopoly incident
to the fact that no two of us are alike,
FOR THE SERVICE OF ALL, thus
uniting the two extremes called Indi
vidualism and Socialism in One Spirit
and One Purpose.
But, on the contrary, these two forc
es known as State and. Church, from
Egypt to the present time, have con
spired together to keep the common
people in ignorance of their spiritual
powers, for no man or woman ever was
a slave except through such ignorance,
Obviously, the way to solve that pro
blem is to reduce it to its lowest terms
—A LITTLE CHILD—the method of
Isaiah, arid of Jesus 700 years later;
but the Jesuits knew that this rule
worked both ways, and in their brazen
dictum "Give us the child until it is
seven, and we care not who has it af
terwards," inform us how each rising
generation has been consigned to the
vicious circle of "a people robbed and
despoiled."
Thus, as in Russia, for example, mil
lions of people of the physical stature
of men and women, are but children
experience, and so-called liberty
was but another name for license (as
it was with the negroes who were 'em
ancipated' by statute), but being chil
dren in experience, they were utterly
ignorant of Self-government, and the
world is paying a fearful price for such
ignorance.
The Greeks worked the same game
on the Helots, but the instinctive hate
of injustice caused them to rise and
smite their oppressors when the psycho
logical moment arrived, as it always
has done and always will do.
It is not by chance that not one
person in a million knows that the
SUPREME LAW OF THE UNIVENSE
IS RECIPROCITY, but until that truth
is known and acted upon, there is not
the slightest possibility of bringing or
der out of chaos (for reciprocity is
the law or order), and the leaders of
the old order are utterly "at sea" be
cause they DO NOT KNOW THE ONE
WAY OUT.
Strange to say, there were TWO
ways into this mess—two wrong ways
—but there is only one right way out
of it; that way is straight and narrow
(not crooked and broad), as was point
ed out some 1900 years ago by the re
presentative man who asked the old
question "Have yet not read 'I said ye
are gods?* "
Sounds funny, in these materialistic
times, but there is enough spiritual T.
N. T. in those words to overturn every
State and Church on earth. This is
"radical" because it goes to the ROOT
—the law that generates peace, order,
health, good will, and all good things
whatsoever, as naturally as the sun
generates light, heat and power.
I wish .you had some metal workers
for I hope to get a pair of balances in
every home in-the world (I always
have a pair before me as I write) ; but
the only ones obtainable here at a low
price are "made in Germany."
LIFE OF MEXICANS
INSECURE IN AMERICA
(By The Federated Press)
Washington.—How unsafe are the
lives of Mexican citizens in some parts
of the United States has again been
emphasized by the Mexican govern
men t > ; n calling to the attention of the
state department the murder of three
~
Mexicans by American citizens in Tex
as. In each instance the killing was
deliberate.
DESTINY
By George D. Coleman
'Tis destiny that shapes our lives,
Refute it as you will,
When you reach the end of the trail
of life,
Its past events will haunt you still;
You have gone where you least ex
pected,
You have left the thing undone;
You have missed many things you
wanted.
But balanced by things you won.
You have looked into the spirit of
strangers—
A queer spell held you bound;
It changed the course of your future
life.
And opened new world unfound.
Death takes its toll, leaving you lonely,
Fire destroys keepsakes, comforts,
and loves;
But you have one compensation—
You cannot need them long.
There are circumstantial vices and
virtues.—^Napoleon I.
Once a Month
s —one
Lead
nd he
ir May
3 them.
nething
ny one
work,
Dough
'enthall
vorking
Ise and
ildren's
lie gar
Rosa
week.
garet Kapotsy, and Laura Synoground
worked at the Cafeteria shelling pea
nuts. Harold Kemp worked at the
Dairy all week. J. T. and Wiliie B.
Oreen worked at the Cafeteria and the
Dairy Clifford and Mable Syno
ground worked at the Cafeteria and at
the hotel. Margaret Seeiye gave vio
lin lessons and worked at the Cafeter
ia. Dora Cryer worked at the Cafeter
Emma Kapotsy worked at the ho
rom j
tel and pnntshop. Kenneth Thurman
worked this week at the Cafeteria and
at the garden. Laura Merrill wrapped
bread and worked at the Cafeteria,
j Vinita Thurman worked at the Cafeter
'a and laundry. Maxine Gaddis helped
at the Cafeteria. Nellie Kemp worked
at the kindergarten all week during her
work hours. Beulah Gaddis worked at
the candy kitchen, office, cafeteria
and print shop.—CLARENCE SHUTT
¥ 9 V *
Last Saturday we had a very good
time out at the swimming pool. We
took our lunch, and just let me tell you
we surely enjoyed ourselves. Mr. Pick
ett came out for dinner and afterwards
gaVe "L a Very 8°°d talk. - We always
enjoy Mr. Pickett's talks very much.
We all wish Saturday came twice a
week instead of once.
XT ., . v " v """" V I««
an egg. Now if that ain't telling a lie
what is it?" "Well, yes, in her lan.
guage she told a lie, George; but there
are lots of people supposed to be good
who tell lots of lies in the same way;
and you must be careful that you don't
tell lues in that way."
MOSQUITO DESTROYERS
In connection with the endorsement
°t the Kiwanis club of the movement
to establish a bat roost in New Orleans
as a means of checking mosquitoes, at
tention has been called by the depart
ment of conservation to the fact that
several birds, especially swallows and
marins, and the night hawk or bull bat
are very valuable as mosquito destroy
ers, and that public sentiment in their
behalt should be strengthened, and the
laws for their protection thus made
more effective.
Marlins may be attracted to nest
boxes suitably situated and large colon
ies could be esablished in the suburbs
or the city. Information along this line
will be furnished cheerfully at the of
fice of the Department of Conserva
tion.
H. B. Gammon of Fort Worth, Tex.
'ne " * v '*
Llano
Dollar -Up
Club
Contents for A?R1L:
OPERATIVE COM
By George E. Can
' CO-OPERATORS
MOT DISMAYED
FAILURE.
THE UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE
BROTHERHOOD—Some Questions
Answered.
WE, OF NEWLLANO-By Theo F.
Cuno.
BOOKS AND READING—By Theo,
r. Cuno.
rching March at Newllano
By FRANK H. NEWMAN
ESPERANTISTOJ
n in Esperanto, By
IN AUSTRALIA—
y.
MY PROBLEM—A S,o,y of , Life
Struggle, By John H. DeQuer.
ALL IS DISCOVERED— A Poli, id
intrigue Story.
M d!ln Y mRY ~ A St °ry for Chil
omJT'" " ' he be " «-ope,.rive
'* »bout various co-ope,at,™ enter
their successful formulas. 1 enter
many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the monev au«
pmè ÄÄÄ- Ä^,ut: hood -
^ ny is the most interesting community in the world to-day and "The
tor carries regularly something new about Llano
Co-ope,„o, i, 0 „| y O „o Dollar for a yea, Ma, „e .end i, you >
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, Louisiana
A NEW TRIAL FOR TOM MOONEY
TOM MOONEY
By Richard Roman
San Francisco, — An important and
far-reaching precedent has just been
established by the California District
Court of Appeals, which is likely to
obtain the freedom of Tim Mooney and
Warren K. Billings., militant Ilabor lead
ers who were condemned to life im
prisonment upon perjured testimony.
Almost coincident with the filing of
Tom Mooney 's appeal, before the same
court, seeking to upset the decision by
a lower court denying a writ of aud
ita querela, came the Court of Appeals
decision ordering a re-trial in the case
of Thomas Brady, convicted of assault
in the notorious Howard Street case.
Brady had been convicted on perjured
testimony which District Attorney Mat
thew I. Brady had sought to conceal.
To-day Brady is free on very nominal
bail, pending a re-trial which is cer
tain to clear him of the crime charged.
The only difference between the sta
tus of the Mooney-Billings defense and
that of. the Howard Street defendent,
from a purely legal point t>f view, is
that perjury in the Mooney case was
not discovered and established until
after the statutory period for applying
for a new trial had expired. In the
case of Brady, it was discovered during
the progress, or shortly after the trial.
But, as Byron C. Parker, attorney
for Mooney, convincingly points out,
perjury is perjury and the victim, no
matter how much time had elapsed, is
entitled to a remedy. In the Howard
Street case, the remedy was obtained
under the law; in the Mooney frame
up, the relief is sought in equity.
It will be extremely difficule for the
District Court of Appeals to deny the
petition for Mooney in the face of its
decision in the Brady case. The jur
ists, Langdon, Sturtevant and Ncurse,
were quite violent in their condemna
tion of the lower court for ruling out
tion of the lower court for ruling out
during the process of the trial evidence
to show perjury by a prosecution wit
ness. ' In upsetting the conviction, the
Court of Appeals invoked with an un
usually religious ferver the "rights of
man" and so on.
I have never understood how Esau
could sell his birthright for a mess of
pottage; but there are moments when
the least sensible of men would not
think it ridiculous to pay too much for
a good slice of roast beef.— Xavier
Marmier.
We must find a way to prevent us
urers from acquiring claims of mcney
indebtedness against the people thru
cunning jugglery of phrases and false
hoods.
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GÖOD ONE
Made and^SoId by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in: —
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his.recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or low. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
DRAINAGE IS ESSENTIAL
TO SUCCESSFUL FARMING
Comrade W. C. Benton led the dis
cussion at the agricultural meeting last
Friday night, and pointed to the two
drains placed in the garden as a vis
ible demonstration of the good effects
that drainage has in improving the soil
for gardening and farming purposes.
Even the best of farmers do not real
ize fully the benefits that can be se
cured through a thorough drainage of
the soil.
If all the rain falling on the surface
of the land were absorbed in the soil,
the earth would be turned into a con
tinuous swamp, and only the lowest
forms of plant life could exist in it.
Water however seeks the lowest level
under the pull of gravity, and with a
natural system of drainage, such as
the porosity of the soil, open water
ways', creeks, brooks or rolling uplands,
only the capillary and hygroscopic wa
ter is retained. But where the parti
cles of the soil are too fine and retard
the gravitational tendency of water,
artificial drains become indispensible to
the best tillage, utilization and produc
tivity of the soil. The soil in the im
mediate vicinity of the town Newllano
consists of very fine sand, silk and clay
and is in need of drainage in order to
produce bumper crops. Other lands
among our holdings at some distance
from the town produce abundantly with
ordinary farm care, when cleared of
stumps.
Most people know that plants will
not grow without water, but mighty
few have any conception of the fact
that the plants require air for their
growth as well as water. And the air
is appropriated by the rootlets of the
plant. Plants can have the life smoth
ered out of them as easily as out of hu
man beings or animals. Take the air
away from plants and they die.
About fifty percent of the ordinary
soil is made up of the spaces between
J the soil grains and this space is filled
with air and water. The size of the
soil grains determining the space so oc
cupied by air, and water drainage in
creases the amount of moisture avail
' able to the plants, shrubs and trees,
enlarges the root zone and promotes
the aeration of the soil, essential to the
growth of the bacteria of nitrification,
and thus increases the available food
supply cf the soil ; the mineral elements
of the soil becoming more soluble thru
oxidation. Drainage, by quickly re
moving surplus water before it can dis
solve and absorb any considerable
amount of plant food, enables the cap
illary moisture, the proper soil solution,
to dissolve and retain a much larger
percent of the essential plant ingredi
ents.
If It Is a
Is there any crime worse than the
bitter, narrow prejudice of the hide
bound self-styled idealist?
That is, the idealist who is so narrow
so little-minded, so small-souled, that
he must destroy all that is not exactly
to his liking.
Emma Goldman, helping the capi
talists to destroy Soviet Russia is the
latest and possibly the most spectacu
lar example.
Lesser personages are none the less
active, but their fields are smaller.
The co-operative store movement has
been destroyed by such a person.
Millions of dollars have been lost.
Hopes have been badly wrenched. The
enemy has been strengthened. Our
cause has been weakened.
Much of this disaster is directly
traceable to the pernicious activities of
one man. Not all, but a great deal.
This man pose? as the god-father of
co-operation in America. His position
is that of philanthropist, kindly direct
or, helper of struggliing groups, ben
evolent advisor.
His activities are partly educational.
His participation in the movement is
that of a hidden mine in the harbor.
Possessing great wealth, it is possi
ble for this individual to use his influ
ence and his purse to destroy, to cre
ate dissension, to sow the seed of dis
cord.
He has been remarkably diligent.
His efforts are known by but a hand
ful. His pose of blessed benevolence
is still maintained. His true character
is as yet undiscovered.
He is able to place the blame of fail
ure upon others, those who have work
ed hard, those who have built, those
who had to take the place of respon
sibility.
It is always easy to stand on the
side lines, and after the play is made
to tell what should have been done.
Just as easy, too, to throw a few
tacks, cockle-burrs, and strands of
barb wire about, undetected.
What do you think, tho, of the man
who does it?
The gentleman who has done more
to destroy the co-operative movement
of America, is unquestionably, in his
own mind, perfectly honest.
It is possible for a narrow, bigoted,
ambitious mind, to find justification
for acts of any nature.
This jealous gentleman probably
thinks that in wrecking the co-opera
tive movement in America he has ad
vanced the cause.
& & &
We are a world of 14-year-old-mind
ed people.
At least we of the United States are.
Seventy people out of a hundred
have the intelligence of 14-year-old
children.
Exhaustive and careful tests show it.
Only 30 out of a hundred grade any
higher.
If you have an idea to give to the
world, just keep this in mind. Ponder
for a moment on the problem of reach
ing such people.
Put out big sign boards and write
your notices in simple words, some
thing catchy.
Give your message in pictures.
Write the headlines of the newspa
pers.
These things catch the people of 14
year-old minds. Such minds do not
absorb heavy books, nor read careful
ly and discriminatingly what the news
papers tell.
They are credulous. They accept
any positive statement. So make your
message in positive assertions. It does
not make much difference whether
they are reasonable statements or not.
But make them positive.
If you write for the masses, use
short, easy words and short easy sen
tences.
• When you talk, do the same.
* ¥ * Ç
* ¥ *
Billboards are coming into greater
and greater use as advertising medi
ums.
Reople traveling in autos read as
they speed. Hence, billboard advertis
ing must be snappy and forceful.
Also, autos take people out of doors.
They read outdoor advertising as nev
er before.
The Rotary Clubs, made up of the
keenest business brains, are using this
method of carrying on a rather ob
scure propaganda.
Throughout the entire country read
ers are admonished to do many things,
Here are a few of them:
BUY, BUILD, WORK, AND CRE
ATE A JOB FOR EVERY MAN,
PROSPERITY FOR ALL.
Another one, calculated to arouse
the admiration and enthusiastic ap
plause of six millions out of work
reads:
THIS IS OUR COUNTRY, YOURS
AND MINE. WE FOUGHT FOR IT.
NOW LET US WORK FOR IT!
There is good logic in the following,
bat just what class it is directed toward
is not quite plain. Anyway, here it is:
YOU CAN HAVE PROSPERITY IF
YOU ARE WILLING TO PAY FOR
Current Comment
IT WITH FAITH, WORK, AND CO
OPERATION.
One of the most inspiring, and one
that might be justly used, with some
slight modification, by the submerged
majority, reads to all who look, as fol
lows;
WHEN MILLIONS OF MEN BUCK
UP, THINK UP, TALK UP, BUSI
NESS WILL WAKE UP.
How we wish we could believe this
inspiring one. But we fear there is
a joker in it. It
WORK HARD, BUY WHAT YOU
NEED, PROSPERITY IS JUST
AROUND THE CORNER.
There are ethers. These are a few
assorted samples. Now, just to see
how effective this propaganda is, why
not ask a few in your neighborhood
what they think of them? If these
bill boards are near where you live,
ask a few people of average 14-year
old minds what they think of them.
? 9 * *
We dream in terms of to-morrow,
live in terms of to-day, and think in
terms of yesterday.
Any of us will concede that wire
less telephones for general use will be
everywhere in a few years. To-day
To-day we have them in many homes,
bringing to us concerts, speeches, etc.
Little more than phonographs, but with
vast possibilities. We will concede al
most anything as a possibility of the
future.
Those are our hopes and dreams.
We live to-day in post-war condi
tions. We have failing finances, fail
ing government, failing nations, starva
tion, menacing wars, graft.
Apathy is everywhere. We refuse
to look into the present, prefering vis
sicnary glimpses into the future or re
gretful reminiscent glances at the past.
To-day in 1922, we are thinking in
prewar terms.
We long for the good old days of
low prices, forgetting that with low
prices went unemployment.
In looking backward we are trying
to live backward.
To progress rapidly, we must forget
thi past, examine the present, and view
with calm discrimination the promis
ed events of the future.
*£
One idea in a generation is more
than we should logically expect.
That is, if this generation manages
to get one whole new idea, it is doing
much better than the average. One
whole idea each generation would do
much to remove humanity from star
vation and ignorance.
The lesson this generation must
learn is co-operation as an idea, as a
method of unselfishly helping human
ity
But it will not get that idea. The
war just past, and the war now brew
ing will so obscure this beautiful pur
pose that it will require several gener
ations to get the lessons.
Wars are not fought in battles, nor
are they paid for in money, lives, and
material alone. The price is retarded
progress, the highest price possible.
* * * *
The cause of applied co-operation
has two chief enemies.
The first of these is capitalism. That
is to be expected.
The second is those who believe in
the principles of applied co-operation.
There is not one co-operative but
what has had its progress retarded, if
it has not been ruined, by the con
duct of these misguided persons.
With the American Dollar as their
highest ideal, but with co-operation us
ed as a hopeful jimmy to get it, these
persons in their haste to acquire mon
ey blind themselves to all other consid
erations.
Next to them, come the fanatics, an
imated by fantastic notions of manage
ment, bent on participation in «very
small detail. Usually lacking training.
their efforts result in chaos, misumjer
Spoiled children, they must break up
the game they are not permitted to
make the rules for.
Spies are comparatively few. Cap
italists have not been especially active,
but the fanatic, the dollar-chaser, and
the suspicious—how they have stopped
co-operation!
standing, hatred, animosities, that
smother and cause disruption.
Gaining their ends, such persons
wreck the enterprise because of their
lack of training, and because of un
sound business methods.
Failing to gain their ends, they pur
sue a policy of "rule or ruin." Like
Such bigoted persons can do more
harm in a week than can be patched
up by the conscientious, hard-work
ing constructive members in several
weeks.
They always ensider their rights
first, the rights of the majority never.
They are the true enemies of co-op
eration. They fight from the inside.
Their wounds make lasting scars.
Any cooperative is justified in ex
pelling such members at any cost, for
to retain them is to sacrifice the en
tire enterprise.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacluring end.
But co-operatiur .'or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of all, are owned equally and controlled^collectively. -
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
lire dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony il that it
•hall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the. healthful Highland* of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the couaty eeat of Parish. It !» about 15 siks
*rom the Sabine River, 100 miles from Shreveport, and nearly 300
«¦to hen New Orleans. The Kansas Gty Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably wi:h those
in any section of the United States. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make ils community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the»- spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life as does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind, many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, «ugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and other crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evaporator house
and cured.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pur« sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Better than Wime gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modem brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed: The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the benefit of the
community, are the following;
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant; bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
ing department ; hospital ; hotel ; swimming pool ; theater : and at
various other seasons other work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
fish desires in favor of collective need.
N q 4 «Si "r-s-opwcSwiT rtti TS«y uet«-*« ta ee-tsperatieii.
out it takes careful study and persistent training to eliminate the
competitive spirit which has been drilled into them from youth.
Thus, the Colony divides co-operators into two general classes: One
class may join the Colony and co-operate with their fellows com
pletely: The other class desires to live near a co-operative commun
® jy* ye* own their own land, tools, etc., desiring private ownership in
these things. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre.
The Colony is now in a position to interest both. Those who wish
to come into the Colony may do so on the terms of membership given
m another place on this page. Those who wish to own land may
buy a Co-operative Farm, participating to an extent i n the co-operative
advantages of the Colony. They may market their crops with the
Colony, enjoy the social advantages, and many of the educational
advantages, with the privilege of exchanging land to be applied On ¦
membership if desired and if acceptable as members The Co-oper
ative Colony will retain about 5,000 acres for itself. The idea is to
build up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
The colony employs agents, but does n ot authorize them to close
any transactions. Memberships should be taken out thröugh the
Membership department. Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville, La.
The colony wants members. It wants people to become interest«» 1
in this enterprise. No one makes any private profit. It is the opportun
ity which co-operators have dreamed of. It is now an established
fact. Will you do your part to extend the field ol its influence?
Those intending to visit the colony should get off the train at Stables.
AH trains stop here. You may not be able to purchase a tickfc
to this place; you may have to buy to Leesville, but you can get
a ticket from Leesville here for ten cents without getting off the
train. We meet all trains; the colony town is right on the railroad.
Notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so.
If you are interested, send for more information and ask such ques
tions as you wish. Send stamps for reply. We want you to know
about us and we want von to ask Questions about everything not
made clear to you. t-nerature sent free on request.
Llano Co-operative Colony
LEESVILLE, LA.
—Advertisement.
SULPHUR IN AGRICULTURE
By Geo. D. Coleman
Raw sulphur, or brimstone, sulphur
tmcombined chemically, is as inert in
the soil as so much broken glass, but
in its chemical compounds it is very
active and is really necessary for fer
tility. You will say that in soil anal
ysis these is no mention made of sul
phur, but that is not the fault of sul
phur ; it is that the analyzers do not re
cognize its value, and thç usual meth
ods of analysis take no account of it
and handle the analysis in a way to
drive off the sulphur. This is due to
the ignorance of the scientific "big
wigs" of the facts. All protean com
binations either in plants or animals,
contain a small but appreciable amount
of sulphur. Sulphur is found in hair
and feathers, in the ISver of animals
and man, and in alfalfa, clover and all
of the nitrogen plants, and even in
other plants, and it is not there as an
impurity, for nature makes no mistakes
—it is man, in his assumed superior
wisdom, that credits nature with mak
ing mistakes and blunders. When men
understand that there is intelligence,
differing from his, in all of natures
processes, he will cease to assume that
he known it all, and accept the humil
ity of the agnostic.
Sulphur is to be found, if searched
for, in all fertile soils. Alfalfa, clo-1
ver, and legumes will not grow where
sulphur is absolutely absent, and a
Soil absolutely devoid of all or any of
the very many combinations of sul
phur is a sterile soil, and if nothing is
i added that contains sulphur in some
form, it will remain sterilie. It is also
because of its homeopathic quantity
that it is ignored.
It is now 53 years since my attention
was first drawn to sulphur as a neces
sary element of fertility. In 1869,
when in Messina, Italy, I visited the
fertile slopes of Mount Etna and was
surprisel at the high average of natural
fertility of thes oils, and attributed it
to the volcanic ash which was in the
soil. I spoke to an intelligent Italian
about it and he replied, "Yes ,the vol
canic ash has much to do with it there
is no doubt, but it is that all this soil
has some form or combination of sul
phur in it." Later, when I visited the
vineyards on the slbpes of Vesuvius and
saw the fine grapes and other things
grown there, I remembered what the
£p)d Italian had told me in Sicily and
commenced to study the subject, and
my observations and studies led me to
THE RE-BUILDING OF L1ANO
r m
Need of Hotel and Other Buildings Daily
Becomes More Urgent-New Electric
Light and Power Plant Provid
ed For.-Next Is New Hotel
m Mb
m.ffl
EE
ffl
ffl_s
b_
EDffl
BE
Llano Colony will soon have a new
electric light and power plant, a visit
ing comrade having advanced the en
tire amount for its purchase and erec
tion.
We now have half the necessary
funds for the first brick residence build
ing, the elevation and floor plans for
which are shown here and about which
we have been talking for some time.
This building is to be only a part
(one of the wings) of our complete
hotel arrangement, which will include
several such buildings around a central
unit which will house the kitchens, din
ing rooms, cafeterias, library and read
ing rooms.
It is estimated that this first brick
building would cost $60,000 to have it
built by contract. But by building it
with our own labor and almost entire
ly out of materials from the natural
resources on Llano land, the cash out
lay is proportionately small.
The workers have built all the fine
hotels, but few have aspired to live in
them, and our object is not only to in
spire the desire to do -so, but also to
offer the opportunity to the workers.
There are many co-operators who
are not yet prepared to take up their
permanent abode with us in Newllana
City, and for these comrades rooms are
reserved at $250 each, and the patron
may come at any time and occupy the
room as long as he desires.
This plan offers advantages to those
who plan to spend the winter in the
South, as by the reservation of a room
they can live with us the greater part
of three winters—250 days in all—be
fore their investment is used up. By
living with us, we mean that you will
be entitled to eat three meals a day
with us. We will not lose anything on
this arrangement. Our present hotel
rate is $1.00 per day for room and
board, and there is no reason for rais
ing the price, as food is produced too
cheaply to necessitate that — with the
wastes and profits of capitalism aUr.L
ished.*
Any balance cm® a ee-uperaror «m •
room reservation may at any time be
credited on a full membership appli
cation, and we earnestly invite all co
operators to visit us at any time they
are able to do so and familiarize them
selves with our achievements and our
aims. If one can spend only a week
or two, he will in that short time be
able to learn much as to our resourc
es and the soundness of our plans and
the wonderful possibilities of the co
operative efforts of those who produce
the wealth of the world but have it
taken from them in a thousand forms
of profit, interest, aa4 rent.
"%s WW maiemkm to explain in
the columns of The Llano Colonist, but
we are always glad to answer questions
—always glad to hear from those who
are interested in the progress of our
work. And if you have $250 that you
can spare—we are sure that it can
never be used so effectively as just
at present. It is an investment and not
a donation that we are asking you to
make, and you can apply it on a com
plete membership or use it for. vaca
tion purposes at any time you please.
=CF
=CF
=0=
A
wTrnzrw
a I a is
7=
7=^
m
¥
1 ^ Y ^
—n—
d=b
di
The Electric Plant Problem Has Been Solved.
The Next Big Thing in the Line of Construction
Is The New Hotel, and We Are Half Way
Toward Starting It. NOW Is the Time YOU
Can Help Most. Let us Hear From You.
Write for more information and tell us what you think of our work.
Llano Co-operative Colony
Leesville, La.
the present conviction of the great val
ue of sulphur in agriculture, and jhat
some sulphur is needed in soils to main
tain fertility. Just as it is found in
all protean forms, just so, in its com
binations is it protean, or changing.
If you don't believe that, look it up in
some good encyclopedia, or see what
is told about it in Webster's Unabridg
ed Dictionary.
WhiEs pure sulphur is as inéjrt as
broken bottles, it is a perfect Harlequin
in its many chemical combinations.
Monoxide of sulphur is sulphur and ox
ygen ,one atom each; dioxide is sul
phur one, oxygen two; and in sulphur
ic acid wè find sulphur combined with
foiir parts of oxygen and two of hy
drogen. This is a compound made by
man and is not found in nature. Mod
ern manufacturing processes could not
go on without it; but it is its combina
tion as a gas that it figures most in
agriculture. When sulphur is burned
in the open air, or in a chamber or ov
en, the resulting combination is sul
phurous acid gas. This is a pungent
gas, penetrating and diffusive, and is
the best fungicide, germicide, bleach
er, and parasite killer there is. This
gas is absorbed by water in large quan
tities, exactly what the. point of com
plete and possible saturation is has not
been lefinately settled, but water that
has absorbed large quantities qf it, it
^
forms an equeoils solution that is a
powerful fungacide, germacide, bleach
er, parasite killer, and will
f'ults, eggs, and kill blight in the soil
But, while it is ail of this, if not used
too abundantly and powerfully, it is the
best encourager of the growth of bene
ficial bacteria, and especially the bac
teria of nitrification. A sufficient
quantity and strength to kill the fun
gus growths in the soil and destroy the
blight in potatoes, tomatoes and blight
generally, and act as a germicide, will
encourage and stimulate the growth of
bacteria that are beneficial and its ef
fect upon alfalfa, clover and all the ni
trogen-gathering plants is really aston
ishing.
We have had bulletins from agricul
tural colleges and departments, upon
the use of suiphur, which spoke entire
ly of sulphate of lime, sulphate of am
monia, sulphate of potash, etc, etc.,
annd headed the bulletins "The use of
Sulphur"; but the only agricultural
collegt that has experimented with raw
sulphur' applied to the soill has been the
Oregon Experiment Station. Of course,
raw sulphur is inert, but it oxydizes in
the soil and quickly gets to work, and
they found the yield of alfalfa was in
creased double, and even trebled. This
is not a matter of yesterday, but of
several years, and the Reports of the
Oregon Station have been widely cir
culated; yet, strange to say, on account
of the obstinate conservatism of the
scientific profession, ihey have not
passed the knowledge on, but have
preserved, in the main, a dignified si
lence that has probably increased their
dignity "an' a* that," but seriously im
peaches their intelligence and common
sense. i ' '
The saturated aqueous solution of
sulphurous acid gas is most useful on
the farm. It will allay the smarting
and itching and swelling of poison oak
or Rus Toxicodendron, and a cloth wet
in it and applied to a burn or a scald
will hasten the healing as it destroys
all germs and is a cooling, healing ap
plication. It will cure ring worm and
scaly leg in chickens and an ounce of
it to the quart in the poultry water
fountains will hasten moulting and aid
young chicks in feathering. When
stock get diarrhea, this aqueous solu
tion will generally check and cure it,
when mixed in their drinking water.
The same with diarrhea in chickens.
Sprayed upon the perches and poured
into the cracks where the red mites
hide, it will kill them, as well as bed
bugs and other vermin. Few bugs or
plant pests can stand the test of being
sprayed by it. At the same time it is
good for the plants. Where cut worms
bother, the ground around the plants
should be sprayed with it; if it reaches
the worms it is very discouraging to
them—and besides it is a great aid
to the plants. Poured over a crock of
tomatoes, peaches, plums, or other
fruit, they will be preserved in perfect
condition for months; only when used
the fruit must be cooked, as the heat
drives off the gas and leaves neither
taste nor smell of it. It will preserve
eggs and when they are used they will
be found in quite as good condition as
many of the other methods leave them.
In fact, if eggs are fresh when put in
the solution, it will leave them in bet
ter condition; for the solution kills the
germ or "tread," and that is the thing
that causes the trouble. There are hun
dreds of uses the solution can be used
for, if we remember that it is a fungi
cide, germicide and disinfectant. It is
perfectly harmless. There is much
more to be told about the use of sul
phur, but space prohibits now. I will
speak of it another time.
If the animals can reason, what must
they think of men?—Henry George.
GLARING CONTRAST IN
TWO CAPITAL TRIALS
(By The Federated Pres«)
Dedham, Mass. — The speedy ac
quittal of Caleb Loring Cunningham,
the aged land owner, who admitted he
shot in the back and killed a working
map trespassing on his vast estate, in
the very court room where Nicola Sac
co and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were
found guijty of murder in the first de
gree on attenuated circumstantial evi
dence, puts a period to a glaring con
trast in the history of capital trials.
Cunningham was arrested on the
night of Jail. 5, 1921, after the body
of John Johnson, a Quincy laborer,
was found on his grounds. Johnson, a
preliminary hearing. revealed, had been
unemployed for some time. That af
ternoon he had left his wife and young
children to get kindling wood in the
neighboring forest, the property of
Cunningham. Finding him in the act
of "poaching" pieces of wood, the land
owner fired a rifle and killed him.
The "gentleman farmer," as the
New England papers like to refer to
the 68-year-old defendent, was not put
on the stand in his own defense. In
stead he availed himself of the privi
lege accorded in murder cases to ad
dress the jury after the close of attor
neys' arguments. He read a long state
ment, in which he claimed that he shot
Johnson because he "feared for his
life," and that there was "no murder in
his heart."
The jury accepted the plea of self
defense despite the fact that the fatal
bullet entered the body of the victim in
the small of the back.
Mrs. Johnson and her two children
are destitute as the acquitted slayer
goes back to his estates.
STATISTICAL EXPERT
WARNS EXPLOITERS
(By The Federated Press)
Milwaukee. — A Warning to employ
ers , to desist from their "open shop"
campaign unless they wish to be anni
hilated, was sounded by Roger W.
Babson, business statistical expert, in
his bulletin of Jan. 31, read to the
Federated Trades council by Frank J.
Weber, its general secretary. The bul
letin, headed Time to Think about La
bor, declares:
'Employers the country have been
swinging the tomahawk for the past
18 months. The days for such activ
ity are now drawing to a close. It is
time to think and reason."
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
BOOSTS CO-OPERATION
(By The Federated Pre»»)
New York. — The approval by Pre
mier Lenin of the Russian government,
of the concession to a group of Amer
ican Industrial Workers of the World,
headed by William D. Haywood,
means, according to H. S. Calvert, who
is in charge of the organization work
here for the Kuznets Basin project,
that official sanction has been given to
the greatest industrialization scheme
ever proposed. v The project is to de
velop that vast region on a co-opera
tive plan in which every worker will
have a voice, and which will be man
aged by engineers, technicians and in
dustrial scientists.
HARDING'S APPOINTEE
SQUANDERS PEOPLE'S WEALTH
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Washington. — Balked in his plan
to secure control of Alaska's re
sources through congressional action.
Secretary of the Interior Fall has irçade
a sudden flank movement and has se
cured from Secretary of the Navy Den
by an offer of full control of the navy
coal lands in the territory, to be leased
by Fall to private interests.
The logical bidders for such a lease
are the Guggenheims, who dominate the
metal mining industry of Alaska and
who made the desperate attempt at the
Cunningham coal claims with the aid
of former Secretary Ballinger, in Taft's
day. Fall recently expressed his deep
sympathy with Ballinger and the Gug
genheims in that affair.
A TRAITOROUS EDUCATOR
OPPOSES ENLIGHTENMENT
(By The Fedèrated Press)
Worcester, Mass.—Wallace W. At
wood, president of Clark University,
turned out the lights to adjourn forci
bly a lecture by Scott Nearing, after
the Socialist educator had declared that
business men and bankers control col
lege boards of trustees. President At
woöd resorted to this form of direct
action when his verbal interruption of
Prof. Nearing's talk was greeted with
hisses by some in the audience.
"I have spoken in many American
colleges," Prof. Nearing said, in a
statement after this incident, "but this
is the first time that any American col
lege has seen fit to demonstrate pub
licly the truth of my statement about
business control of colleges."
"The Capitalist
than any other man. * '
with him is selfishness and i
mainliy his ignorance. He
know nothing of the history of f<
ism and the French Revolution.
seems never to have studied the cause
of the present state in Russia. He
seems to be ignorant of the fact that
the unsettled condition of affairs in
this country today is in the main due to
the over-reaching of his class in the
last two or three generations. He
seems unable to grasp the fact that he
is in the minority, and that the major
ity are moving on into a new social,
political and industrial order. "The
labor problem will never be solved by
a soldier with a gun. * * The time has
come when we must stop, and face and
solve the labor problem where we are,
with everybody present. * * Something
should be done, and done at once * *
for the common use of all man. * *
' * * Another thing we should look
into is the length of the working day.
* * I think that eight hours is even
longer than is necessary. I cannot see
why the employer should rob the em
ployes of the major portion of the ben
efit arising from the introduction of
machinery. I cannot see why, if a ma
chine can do the work of ten or twenty
men, a man should be compelled to
work at that machine as many hours
as he did formerly when his output
was one-tenth or one-twentieth as
much. * *
" * * As for wages—nothing can be
solved by wages. A high minimum
wage will do no good. If other condi
tions were to remain unchanged, a
minimum wage of twenty dollars a day
would be of benefit to the working
classes for no longer period than it
would take the landlords to raise the
rent and the middlemen in food dis
tribution to increase the prices of food.
" * * I think the time has come when
men of wealth must recognize that
it is not a private possession. It nevér
was and never can be. Wealth is the
fruit of labor, and it belongs to la
bor. * *
"It is time to quit our hypocritical
piety in the form of 'charity' and to
begin to be just in our dealings with
Subscription Rates: "The Llano
Colonist" weekly, for one year, $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign coun
tries, $2.50..
THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page 1 )
important to the who!« world. Capi
talism is breaking down; something
must take its place. We feel sure that
the human race is not going backward.
We believe the workers are going to
step forward and establish the Co-op
erative Commonwealth. We believe
this so thoroughly that nothing can
change or swerve us from our purpose.
Quite frequently people come here be
lieving they are co-operators; they
join us. But either their suspicion,
their jealousy, or their greed so con
trols them, that it makes them unfit
to live in our big co-operative family,
which of course means that they must
either change their motive or it will
drive them out. You cannot play a
sham game in this place; you soon
show just what you are and a few go;
because they are unfitted for the new
regime that is now being inaugurated
here. Now, these misfit people are not
to blame", and we do not wish to in
any way discredit or harm them; but
if they refuse to recognize that their
limited co-operative knowledge or spir
it is at fault, then we must protect our
selves against any wrongful act or at
tacks by them. Usually they think
everything is wrong but themselves,
and try to rule or ruin. However, if
their motive is honest they realize that
they are at least-partly to blame, leave
the Colony peacefully and later return
and make good co-operators, after
thinking it all over when under com
petition again. Those whose motives
are not honest do everything in their
power to destroy the colony or some of
its inhabitants; they join up with the
most vicious persons and methods in
order to wreak revenge upon us, singly
or collectively. Now why in an age of
reason should anyone believe tales told
by these misguided persons without a
full explanation or investigation. I
know no real comrade will stoop to dip
himself or herself in the swill pail pur
posely, so if tales come to your ears,
think of just one thing, "That the road
to progress is always over the opposi
tion of those who don't understand and
the combined ignorance of the world."
Most of us are enslaved with greed
and suspicion and a few words of in
sinuation often cause great trouble, so
why condemn until know. Is it
why condemn until you know. it
possible a whole community of people,
nearly 300 in numbers, who have giv
en their all in personal property, years
of hard work and study, can all be
¦wrong? Is it not possible that a lone
individual who complains is somewhat
wrong? And is it not true that the
worse their accusations, and the great
er the number of the faults they find,
the more likely he is to show up a per
sonal weakness? Are we comrades in
this great work always to be placed
on the rack of condemnation with yonr
doubts against us at all times? Come,
see for yourself and then judge. For
seven years we have gone thru the fire
and we become weary and waste much
energy in defending ourselves against
mistaken people. This energy could
be expended in construction, provided
they had the faith in us to trust our
sincerity of purpose and integrity. This
is said to reach you, my comrade, who
are inclined to listen to tales that may
come from any source. Have you con
fidence in this movement and in us?
If so, these words are not necessary.
The algebra class and the agricultural
meeting were held to-night and were
both welt-attended. The subject of
drainage was open for discussion and
much good resulted.
# * * »
Saturday, April 8. — I. F. Brown is
the donor of a good book to our li
brary and R. E. Beaty sent in a special
kind of rhubarb. I must correct the
credit for a shipment of rhubarb giv
en to Adams and Son last week—they
shipped it at the request of Comrade
Wm. Hauenstein, of Missouri, and he
is the donor. Many thanks for these
gifts; they add to our up-building.
Comrade Darth came home to-day and
is more enthused over the Colony than
ever. He says that, after living here
a few months, one can go away and
have a much better "slant" on the gen
eral situation outside. He is home to
stay. Work yvas started to uncover
the cane stubble and Waters-and Hin
kle finished one patch of it tc-day. The
land crews are still on their job and the
builders are at their work as hard as
ever. Again the children's day is here,
and they were mostly working in the
garden with Babb and Benton. Water
melons were set out in the field that
had been raised in the hot bed. Later
they went to the swimming pool when
I joined them for lunch. Later we all
had a good swim and a general good
time, returning to the garden for more
work. Comrades Loutrell, Landrum,
and C. Shutt made another »trip to
Longville and got more electrical sup
plies. Soon we will be completely fix
ed for an electrical house lighting and
electrical pcwer, sufficient for all pre
sent needs. The dancing school had an
extra large class ahd it is very pleasing
to see six year-old kiddoos joining into
the class with sixty-year-old kids! The
dance was then eft joyed until 10:30
The necessity of our roof garden is
more apparent each week, and in a few
more weeks we will wonder how we
ever got along without it. Comrade
F. E. Mitchell from N. H, came in this
evening to look us over and was on
hands to enjoy the evening and meet
us all at play time.
* * * *
Sunday, April 9. — To-day I will
give you a little sermon that may help
us to get together and understand each
other. This Colony is no play garden.
But one of the problems we have to
solve is that of sociability. The human
animal is a social being and we, with
all our work and supposed sacrifices,
enjoy our cvery-day life immensely.
Our education is intended to be the
very best and to give our students the
ideals of life that tend to develop the
best that is in each and for the common
good of all the rest of the world. We
are holding no secrets and never will;
what is our knowledge is open to all
who may wish to know it. Our every
day work is done with the intention of
benefiting each and every person in our
organization. Therefore ycu can sea
that there is no wish or desire for a
thinker to do anything but to develop
himself to the highest degree of individ
uality. But this individual develop
ment is not for selfish purposes, but to
the common good The interest of each
is taken care of by the whole. It is
necessary then for us to always keep
in touch with the purpose of our efforts
in order to get the best of team work.
1 he land-clearing crew is clearing land
for the purpose of bringing more land
into cultivation with the least labor
expenditure possible from the farmers.
It is the duty of the farmers- to pro
duce-the food for ourselves and live
stock, and they try to keep in touch
with all of us and our food necessities.
The builders are putting up buildings
that we may live in better homes and
work in buildings that offer the best
possible conditions for the workers at
all times. Our aim is to have our so
cial life conducted so that it will fur
nish pleasure for everybody and tend
to draw in closer together and form a
horçje psychology for Colony social life
unequaled anywhere. You can see how
necessary it is for us all to keep as
closely in touch with our purposes and
ideal at all times as we can, in order
to each make his individual effort co
ordinate with the general cause. What
is the general ideal to be worked out?
A society of people who are producing
for use only; in which every person
has an equal right to the necessaries
of life and the opportunity to develop
the individuality of himself to the high
est standard; where the spiritual side
of people will develop away from sel
fishness, jealousy and suspicion, and in
their place develop a wish to serve for
the good of all. Now there is one
point I want you to get. The wish to
meddie with another's work is far from
keeping in touch with each other. We
expect each individual to know what
our general purpose is (therefore the
psychological meetings) ; and when
each does his or her best to work to
the ideal, it leaves no „room for and
personal interference or "even criticism.
Is this easy to do? No, indeed, we are
so apt to take general welfare talks
and subjects as personal; we are apt
to suspect the other fellow« is not do
ing his share of the work, or think
he is taking more from the common
fund than he needs, and in fact call
back into use all our past life has
taught in our struggle against each
other. We, here, have practically ab
olished these destructive thots and are'
ablç to adjust ourselves in our daily
life with each other and be satisfied
with doing our best for the common
good, with full confidence in the rest.
Some day the world will come to this
idea, when they see hpw useless, fool
ish and unjust the competitive system
of life has become and that all men
are their brothers with the same right
to life, liberty and the persuit of hap
pii.ess. Co-operation alone can bring
this and if you want it you must join
into the work to get it. It is curs for
the having, but you must get the de
'sire and then put it into action. The
mental science class and a fine pro
gram at the theater were missed by
yours truly, much to "ye lady report
er's" sorrow.
* * * *
Monday, April 10. — Another fine
day and it is needless to say we hope
many others will fellow until we have
completed our planting. The garden
is looking dandy and the children are
taking a great interest helping Babb
and Benton in preparing the land and
planting. The strawberries are now be
ginning to bear, and H. Buck is acting
chief berry-picker and boss of that job.
Burton has been working night and
day in order to get our income tax
roll made out and believe me, it is a
job! No other corporation is based
or works on the same principle that
ours does and it makes a big job of
bending, twisting, and squirming in or
der to make our report comply with
the law. Well, Burton ki^ows, ask
him. Mrs. Shutt is again back home
and says she is good and glad to be
hoirs. Comrade Coleman is now writ
ing a pamphlet on the process he em
ployes in making fertilizer. He is giv
ing all the details of this process and
it should be in the hands of every far
mer and gardener in the country. We
are going to print the full directions in
bood form and any person can fit him
self up with a small plant and cut
away from commercial fertilizer. A
comrade from Colorado writes that the
only draw-back he can see to the Col
onny scheme is that it keeps out the
poor man and his family that have no
funds, and is open to only those who
have $1,000 op-more., Now, there is
a shade of truth m that statement, but
you muit understand that the Colony
must'be financed by some one. It takes
cash to buy land and machinery, to
say nothing of the cost of living until
we produce enough to supply ourselves.
Now, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
is for just this purpose. If enough peo
ple will pay in sufficient money to fin
ance the proposition, we can then take
in thousands of people who are now
financially broke. Another funny thing
is this: As long as the average man
has a little money, he thinks he can
beat the game' and he continues to
buck it until he finally loses all he had
and then he is ready for the Colony.
Others, who have a little cash will put
their money in, provided we GUARAN
1EE to make them safe in their invest
ment. Now, comradse, let me say
again that as long as you want to
beat the game ' you are not ready for
co-cperation. You should know that if
you win out it is at the expense of
others who are not so fortunate. The
man who only looks at his own safely
should realize that we must all be sav
ed together and that thru our combin
ed efforts alone can we be made se
cure. Now, we have all been robbed
in the past and it makes us wary and
careful; but, comrades, we are here
working— we own the land, buildings,
and an immense amount of wealthh in
tools, machinery and stock—don't be
a doubter. Come and s^e fcr yourself
and then join in with us now and help
tile fellow who is not able to buy a
membership. The quartet practice at
Martin s, the orchestra at the school
house, and the children's mental sci
ence class at the club house kept most
of us busy to-night.
* ¥ * ¥
Tuesday, April 11. — Well, people,
the time is fast approaching when our
land purchase is to be made. Just
think! Only next month. And until
that $24,000 is completely raised I
know some one who will not sleep
many hours in any one night. You who
have money and intend to help us out
on this purchase should relieve the sit
uation as soon as possible, or "ye lady
reporter" is liable to blow up, and then
you would not have the diary to read.
Now, that alone should be worth sever
al thousands of dollars to you in a
year. She sometimes feels as if she
earns a million while writing it. Of
course you do not know the amount of
faith we have in you people, to fee!
sure that enough of you are going to
help RIGHT NOW and permit us to
make this payment on time. We feel
sure that the LLANO I25-CLUB will
be complete before next January; but
the big rush must come now in order
to make this year's payment on time.
111 promise you this: If you people do
the job on time, it will put new vim
into our group and especially the "lady
reporter" to such an extent that the
work here will become a play job—
and the Diary—well, you will think it
is written by a superman. Seriously,
comrades, if you are coming or çan
help us at all, no matter how small
the amount or how large, it will all be
used in making more and better homes
for our class. It is the common cause
you will be assisting, not a small group.
Will you not do it now and permit us
to plan ahead for greater things? Com
rade Mitchell returned to New Hamp
shire a much pleased man, with our
possibilities and we feel that he can be
of great'assistance to our progress. The
card club met to-night and played
Five Hundred and a pleasant evening
was had by those who attended. The
ball team is adding new players and
a game on May Day is assured. Com
rade N. M. Harris, of Illinois, sent in
a sewing machine which sure comes
in handy at the sewing department.
Every little bit helps, comrades, to make
a successful demonstration of volun
tary, complete co-operation.
COTTON AND GRAIN
EXHIBITED AT L. S. U.
A joint exhibit of cotton and grain
recently was made and explained be
fore the students at the Louisiana
State University and members of the
extension force, by G. S. Meloy, inves
tigator in cotton marketing, and K V B.
Seeds, specialist in grain marketing,
United States Department of Agricul
ture. The object of this display was
to show some of the different grades of
cotton grown in the U. S. A their com
parative values, the best methods of
marketing and grading; and to exhib
it the" Federal standards of grain and
the , methöds of grading under those
standards for the purpose of demon
strating how certain changes in produc
tion methods will give a product that
will receive a better grade and hence
command a better price.
In the cotton section were samples
of grades for the American upland
types, the Sea Island types and the
Egyptian types. Pictures showing the
Luncheon in Medinet Hobu Temple
? .
'
>v
i /
? > ¦ : r.
. $
Î&
> I
m !
¦ hr>
i" \ TV
:x
Here's a nice qul^f spot for luncheon In the Temple of Medinet Hobu, di
rectly across the Nile from K&rnak. The three little girls In the picture are
watercarriers and the reeds they are holding are to fan flies from the travellers
and their donkeys. From the time the tourist sets forth on his ride to the
ruins until he returns, several of the children follow him on their self-appoint
ed tasks.
different steps in the spinning process
that cotton goes through for the pur
pose of discovering the relation be
tween foreign matter content and the
real product, methods of baling cotton
and the plans and specificaions for
warehouses were shown by Mr. Meloy.
Types of various grains, including
rice, showing some factors affecting
grades, a panel of the various stages in
the marketing of grain, the grading of
grajp from the sampling of car in the
railroad yard to the final analysis in the
laboratory and the milling and baking
values of various wheats which influ
ence the grade, and the apparatus us
ed in inspecting the grain were present
ed by Mr. Seeds.
Many students availed themselves of
this opportunity of getting some very
helpful suggestions and information
that will supplement their college work.
The exhibits were shipped from Baton
Rouge to Nashville, Tennessee, where
Llano 125 Club
Is YOUR Club
Don't merely WATCH It Grow — Get In and Help!
Do you intend some day to make Llano your home?
Do you want a comfortable dwelling and the conveniences of a modern city
when you come?
Of course you do.
Then join the LLANO 125-CLUB immediately. This club is YOUR club.
Its purpose is to furnish the cash with which to build a place for YOU. We
will do the pioneering; we will do the actual work; but you must supply the
necessary cash.
125,000 Dollars will completely finance this Colony. It will give us com
plete ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with which to '
build our modern city. It will give steady employment to several thousand per
sons and lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will
peimit us to admit people who are good co-operators and are willing to give
their labor and moral support to our undertaking, but have not the money
with which t<j buy a membership. #
We want 125 persons to pledge themselves to furnish 1,000 Dollars each
THIS YEAR. This will enable us to do in ONE YEAR what is would take sev
eral years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with
your help we can do it much sooner.
On another page you will find a list of those who have already joined
the Club, and this will be published frequently, so that you may note its pro
gress. But don't merely WATCH it grow—get in and-MAKE it grow.
On May 1, 1922, Llano Colony will have been eight years in existence;
and within the last two years we have made more progress than during the
previous six years.
What will we do in the next two years?
THAT IS UP TO YOU!
Let the Colonics Hear from YOU today
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LOUISIANA
they will be displayed for the students
at Peabody college.
Our confidence in the instability of
fortune is so great that excessive pros
perity of our enemies makes us rejoice
as the signal of their impending ruin.
—Pre vost-Pa radol.
We are still living in the feudal age.
because we are misled by effects. We
often fail to see the real cause. —-C. E.
S. Wood.
EAGLE "MIKADO
Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made in five grades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
(Continued from page I )
to help with your small monthly dona
tion. As explained in previous issues,
this club is for the purpose of relieving
the Llano comrades of the necessity of
making and selling products in order
to get a living, so that all J-he |r time
may be used for the BUILDING of the
Co-operative Commonwealth, and that
they may have the necessary money to
furnish material and improvements.
See the announcement of this club on
page three.
The motto of this club is: You give
your cash; we'll give our time; toge
ther we'll build the Co-operative Com
monwealth."
u. S. WEATHER REPORT
The indications are for cooler wea
ther the first of the week; generally
fair except for the possibility of local
rains, for the barometer still indicates
rain. Normal temperature thereafter.
2.40 inches of rainfall has been re
corded during the week ending April
10th, inclusive.
Apr. 4—max. 77, min. 60
Apr. 5—max. 83, min. 54
Apr. 6—max. 84, min. 61
Apr. 7—max. 84, min. 69
Apr. 8—max. 83, min. 70
Apr. 9—max. 80, min. 62
Apr. 10-max. 80, min. 58
Caprices of women are the result of
perversion caused by man.—Taxile
Delord.
The Labor News
The "Labor News" published in AI
toona, Pa., is the largest LABOR PA
PER published in the state, and gives
you the labor news from home.
LABOR NEWS PUB. C.
ALTOONA, PA.
mmmmm
A WEEKLY MESSENGER FROM THE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
AN INVITATION
If you receive a sample copy of this
paper, it is an invitation to you to sub
scribe. Some friend of yours has ask
ed us to send it.
Sample trial subscription is ten cents
a month. Regular subscription is
$1.50 a Year; five cents a Copy. j
To es
be formed to
Co-operative
Llano
MEMBER THE FEDERATED PRESS
^ol. 1.
PRICE FIVE CENTS—$1.50 YEAR N
PUBLISHED AT LLANO COLONY LEESVILLE LOUISIANA. SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1922.
1
The Colony Diary
Being a Dally Report of Colony Life at Llano.
' -
Wednesday, April 12. — A trip to
ïha newly-cleared land west of the (
Ford ranch shows nearly 40 acres of
land cleared of stumps, roots and all
debris. It is- also plowed and ready,
to be disced and planted. We will
build a hog- and goat-proof fence
•around this tract and plant it to sweet
potatoes. Planting will start in about
one week. North of the Ford ranch
the fellows have about 35 acres plow
ed and more thsin half that much en
tirely freed from stumps. This piece
<of ground will be planted to sorghum,
¦which will be used for ensilage for the
cattle and mules, also to make cur own
brown sugar out of. The Ford ranch
we will plant to peanuts. Marchick,
Busick and Jones are operating the
stump puller to?day and Phillips acts
as cook. Daniel has moved into the
bake shop to help Joe Valek. Kemp
is hauling stumps and wood from the
iield with a four-mule team, while
Siemens and Vernon are hauling with
a Fordson. Kling is using the other
Fordson to pull the stumps into piles
so as to assist the haulers. This p.
m. Jaques, Reeves, Carl Hoover and
Lee all went to the clearing ground to
help get ready for a big planting bee.
Waters, Hinkley, Darth and Denver
Cryer are plowing cane stubble as the
poung plants are coming thru the
ground in fine shape. Lindsey and
Kemp examined our burried cane and
find it in excellent condition; so, v as
soon as the bottom land dries a little
more we will plant cane and corn.
Loutrell, Max Beavers and C. Shutt
made another trip to Longville and brot
home more electrical supplies. Our
"éltctric -plant will add greatly to our
industrial efficiency and cut our light
iill down to nearly nothing. If anoth
er good angel would just furnish us
with about two miles of four or five
inch water pipe we could install city
water and have modern conveniences.
Plans are being made for our machin
ery building, and in a few days we will
begin the foundation for it. It will be
built on the state highway and will
Tiold our garage, tool house, machine
" shop, tin shop, plumbing shop, wagon
shop, blacksmith shop and an up-to
¦date filling station in the front. The
building will be 60 x 120 feet and two
stories high, all brick and concrete, as
near as we can make it. We are get
ting some excellent letters from our
friends on the outside, and we are rea
sonably sure we will have the May
payment on time t and the "125-Club"
completely filled up by January 1. Get
your payment to us as soon as you can.
*We will never have more money than
we can use. Fencing is to be bot,
buildings to be built, and there are
isome excellent land deals to close if
we can get the money. So send it in
and help us to make homes and- jobs
for the jobless, and at the same 1 time
demonstrate complete co-operation to
the doubters. To-night the mandolin
club, band, junior orchestra, and chor
al society all practiced at the school
house. Comrade Martin sure has mu
sicians sprouting up from all quarters
of the Colony.
* * * *
Thursday, April 13. — The town is
almost deserted to-day (that is, around
the town). Everybody and his brother
Bill went out to the land-clearing in
order to get things in shape for a spee
dy job of planting. The laundry and
the printshop show evidence of life
and that is about all to be seen around
the nlace, excepting storekeepers, ho
tel folks, school, office workers, etc.
Doede and Tackett are preparing to do
some experimenting in tanning. We
have tried to get the tannery going
but it seems as if tanners and brick
layers are not to be found; so we
will, just produce our own. However,
if a good tanner and a few brickma
sons are wanting to come, there is al
ways room for more. Matz, Wobler,;
and Oakley from the cabinet shop were
like tickled school kids when sent to
the land clearing on a vacation. Hoo
ver, Reeves, Jaques from the sawmill
also went, while Lee, Nash, Van from
the builders added to the force and
Sanders, Landrum, Sharrer and W.
Beavers made up the rest of the crew
of volunteers who went to help Jones,
Marchick and Busick, the regular clear
ing crew. With this crowd working,
we should "»soon have all this new land
ready for sorghum, peanuts and sweet
potatoes. Co-operation is a great game
an d it is a nice thing to be able to
turn our working forces into one group
when needed and rush thru a hurry-1
up job. The print shop and laundry
prepared for the emergency and we
were able to shut down the big boiler
for the next two or three days. Lou
trell and his helpers made another trip
to Longville to-day. A letter came
from the rice farm with a call for some |
special help ; so Ole, Sanders, Van Nu
land and I drove to the rice plantation
this afternoon to get the work lined up
down there. You didn't know about
the rice plantation? Well, that will
give me a job for next day's diary, and
I will tell you all about it. Miss For-I
biss, a kindergarten and playgrounds
teacher, arrived in the Colony to-day.
as also did Chester Potts, a full-grown
young man from Minnesota. He is the
son of Tom Potts, the founder of the
"125-CLUB." Of course, the Esperan
to class and the psychological meeting
were pulled off to-night; but as I was
not there, it gives me an excuse to pass
them-over until next week. However,
Comrade Buck will probobly spread on
for the Esperanto class, and I hope he
does, for 1 sure need some help these
days. [Typesetter's note: "Unu por
Ciuj, kaj Ciuj for Unu" estas nia moto
en Llano Kolonio. Yes, Esperanto is
furnishing us a fascinating and in
structive side-study, and at the same
time improves our English; but we ore
beginning to realize that it is mce 'h».r
a fad and a pastime—we are f'ndinr
in it an inspiration and an idsal.]
W * * ¥
Friday, Apyil 14. — South and e?s'
of the Colony about one-half d?y"s
drive in a Ford is a plantation of 273
acres of very fine rice land. It has
good houses, barns, storage houses ?nd
a $6,000 well and pumping outfit. This
place will easily produce, at a low esti
mate, 1500 bags of rice each year, and
the pumping plant is so situated that it
irrigates several hundred acres of land
around it. Furnishing water to our
neighbors will bring in enough rice for
our year's work. We have a chance to
buy this place for $10,000. That is
the mortgage against it at the present
time. We have rented it for the year
and will buy it by July first if suffi
cient funds can be raised by that time.
Our net income from the rice planta
tion should bring us at least $10,000
this year. We are taking but little
chance and are depending upon you
folks to give us the answer whether to
buy and start another small colony
there or not. Truck garden and Irish
potatoes and other valuable crops will
be grown in rotation with the rice, so
as to keep the soil built up. The rice
straw will be baled and shipped here
for roughage for our stock and we can
get all the straw we can possibly use
by baling on shares in that district. We
colonists feel it is an exceptionally fine
chance to start another small commun
ity of co-operators and we know it will
give us a very valuable grain crop.
The place is now well-stocked and
equipped, having two tractors, plows,
harrows, discs, binder, planter, mules,
and all that is necessary to completely
grow and harvest the crop; excepting
the threshing machine, which work we
can ge done with very little expense.
The neighbors who depend upon our
well for water give one-fifth of their
crop for water service, and that will
pay all cost of our own labor and ex
penses. It is.an exceptionally fine pro
position and the comrades who own the
place say we should pay the mortgage
and the place is ours. W. H. West and
Arthur Sharpe are farming the place
this year for us. Each has a wife and
two small children, and make an addi
tion of eight more persons to our Col
ony membership list. Van Nuland and
Lynn Sanders* stayed down on the
place to help plant and get all the
machines in good repair, while Ole and
I returned to get more help to handle
things with extra speed. Comradés,
this is a fine chance for us to spread
out and make ourselves more self-sup
porting; but the purchase is possible
only providing you send in your mon
ey and add it to ours. The more dif
ferent kinds of food we can raise, the
easier it will be for us to make our
selves free from capitalism; the more
land we own the more people can come
annd enjoy the co-operative life. Now
(Continued on last page)
A VOICE FROM THE DESERT
From cities repelled trudge I stoutly
along
The waste with its denizens sharing;
v Atune with its songsters I sing me
my song. ^
For wealth and its Worries uncaring—
Where night overtakes
Or day where it breaks—
All's one to the wilderness-fareing.
I've come to myself; my reflections
are sane
Concerning myself and the others.
Here where is nothing to urge or re
strain
My heart gushes out to my brothers-—
The more or the less
Of the thing called "success"
Is all that fraternity smothers.
A notion erroneous is that to acquire
the most is the test of succeed
ing;
Tis this that consumes us, a fast
spreading fife
To which we are strangely unheeding;
And those left alive , "
In the year '25
More neighbors, not loot will be need
ing. /
Tis lonesome to hold our despoilings
alone
With none to desire their possession;
But surely as gravity acts on a stone
Twill come is my honest impression—
The avoidance of same
A more sensible aim
With truce to our greedy agression!
—L. A. OSBORNE.
MAY DAY NUMBER SPECIAL
COLONIST NEXT WEEK
The next issue of The Llano Colon
ist will contain some special May Day
features.
You see May Day is not only the in
ternational labor day, but it is also the
anniversary of the Llano Colony, and
the birthday of The Llano Colonist.
Next week we will publish sonde spe
cial significant May Day Messages
from the leaders in co-operative work,
and a special report from the manager
of the Llano Co-operative Colony.
The May issue of The American
Co-operator will be a special Llano
Colony number, and will be enlarged
to 32 pages, which will be appreciated
by those interested in Llano. For send
ing to your friends for propaganda pur
poses this special May "American Co
operator" will be just the thing. Ex
pressions of conditions at Llano by
many of its residents, will shed a little
light on the reasqn for such progress
as Llano has recently made. Special
articles and some new pictures will
show by contrast the immense amount
of work accomplished in a few short
years.
Better send in and reserve a few May
"American Co-operators" for your
friends. They will be put up in bun
dles of ten or over at five cents a copy.
This is below the regular price and
really less thar cost; so that only bun
dles of ten or more can be handled at
this rate. Now, friends, if you want
to boost Llano, here is you chance.
Any other Llano literature is free for
the asking.
How many did you say?
DARN THA+ WEATHER MAN!
The farmer of Vernon Parish hardly
knows just "where he is at " these
days. About the time he thinks he is
going to have a few dry days to get his
crops in, along comes another shower
and he has another, think coming.
Those that are in are now fine, of
course, but the indications are that the
continuous round of showers will cause
the sweet potatoes and peanuts and
things to be harvested about Christ
mas. If this condition of affairs is al
lowed to continue, it is feared that the
weather man is in danger of losing his
position.
This is his report:
Temperatures for the week ending
April 17th, inclusive:
SEVEN MORE CO-OPERATORS
JOIN "DOLLAR-UP CLUB"
Here are seven more good and true
co-operators, to add their names to the
list of Llano's "DOLLAR-OP CLUB"
this week, thus signifying their willing
ness to aid with the construction of the
Llano Co-operative Commonwealth.
Those added to the list this week are
John Gillan, C. W. Corbin, Reo John
son, C. C. West. F. J. West, Victor Nel
son, G. Stuveling.
These fellows realize that the colon
ists can work better and turn their at
tention to constructive work when the
burden of providing the necessary ex
penses for improvements are met from
the Dollar-Up Club funds supplied by
friends who are able to make a small
monthly donation for this purpose.
See the announcement on page three
which tells all about this club.
THE "DOLLAR-UP CLUB"
Here are the DOLLAR-UP
CLUB members who have chip
ped in thus far with their April
donations:
Frank Gayer $!<00
Mrs. Rose B. Blair $1.00
L. L. Rhodes $1.00
A. C. McKinley $1.00
W.E.Patterson $1.00
Augustus Robinson $1.00
Mrs. L. Dillman $1.00
William Andraska $1.00
Mrs. Blanche W. Briggs $5.00
Henry Mueller $1.00
D. Henderson Howell 1.00
R. K. Williams , 1.00
Napoleon Hill 1.00
F. W. Miles 1.00
John Gillan $1.00
C. W. Corbin (March and
April) $1.00
Reo Johnson $1.00
C. C. West $1.00
F.J.West $1.00
Victor Nelson $1.00
G. Stuveling $1.00
April 11—max. 76, min. 54
April 12—max. 76, min. 48
April 13—max. 83, min. 72
April 14—max. 84, min. 64
April 15—max 85, min. 69
April 16—max. 85, min. 79
April 17—max. 82, min. 72
Indications are for generally fair
weather, with normal temperature, ex
cept for local rains during the week.
Llano Colony Enters
Rice Growing Fit
TAKES OVER LARGE FARM WHERE
RICE WILL BE PRODUCED FOR
USE OF COLONISTS
LLANO 125-CLUB GETS
ONE MORE MEMBER
The program of building for Llano
is going ahead.
Last year at this time we purchased
one thousand acres of land from the
large tract which the Colony has opr
tion on, believing that the co-operative
move would soon need land on which
to start more co-operative communi
ties. This year we want to double this
.acreage and buy another two thousand
acres for the same purpose. Land will
not be any cheaper than it is to-day
and when the co-operative movement
needs it, the price will be much higher,
if not prohibitive.
Along with this purchase; the colon
ists have set their goal this year to pur
chase the optioned land, and in addi
tion to provide modern conveniences
for their own Colony. This will in
clude a new dormitory for the Llano
hotel, and a half of the money for this
has already been provided; but work
cannot begin until some brick layers
can be obtained. Then the water
works and the electric light and pow
er plant come next. The light plant
is already provided for, one comrade
alone donating to the Coloify sufficient
to provide this convenience.
To complete the whole program—
the land purchase, the hotel and the
water and light plant, and to provide
fencing, new machinery and equipment
to forever put Llano beyond the need
of outside help is estimated at $125,
000. The Llano 125-CLUB is for the
purpose of getting 125 members to pro
mise to join the Colony this year and
pay in their entrance fees before Jan
uary 1st.
The following list is of those who
have already signified their intention
of joining this year. The new one ad
ded this week is F. D. Conway.
The LLANO 125-CLUB now boasts
fifteen members. Will you be one of
the immortal club to put the co-opera
tive commonwealth on the map? Here
are the comrades who intend to join
this year and help carry out this pro
gram:
THE "125-CLUB"
Tom L. Potts
A. B- Dawley
W. G. Dunegan
Harry C. Hall
D. W. Van Schoick
John Winters
J. B. Mars
Robert Wurf er
Homer Clark.
Bert Busic
John Stave
Earl A. Young
J. R. Brown
Geo. A. Sanders
F. D. Conway.
You will find an announcement on
page eight about this lively club.
A SfJNDAY MORNING DIVERSION
The writer was sitting on the veran
da of the hotel, viewing the beautiful
landscape towards the dairy farm a
mile to the west, when suddenly he be
held passing toward the vegetable gar
den the cherubic and rotund form of
our good Comrade Gleeser, attired be
comingly in what, to all intents and
purposes, was a bathing suit, as we
thought. Now, the comrade, who is
past the 65th mile stone young, has two
well-known predilections—sun baths
and mental science—neither of which
is to be sneezed at, as both have their
good points. At first I thought this
was an attempt to kill two birds with
one stone on he part of Comrade Glee
ser, and that he was on his way to the
swimming pool and a sun bath as well
—but I was mistaken; for, on reach
ing th: tool house, I saw him mount
Branch Colony Will
Probably Result
on 273 Acre
Rice Farm
The Llano Co-operative Colony is
now in the business of producing rice.
Arrangements have been completed
whereby the Colony takeâ over the op
eration of a 273-acre farm located near
Jennings, La., 75 miles from Newllano,
and a force of men from the Colony
are now on the place plowing and do
ing other work preparatory to putting
in the crop.
About 50 acres are in timber and
the remainder is under cultivation. AH
will be planted to rice except about
70 acres, which will probably be plan
ted to Irish potatoes. A conservative
estimate places the yield of riee at
1500 bage, or about 3000 bushels
which means a plentiful supply for col
ony use and one article less that will
have to be bought on the outside.
On the place is a $6,000 well and
pumping plant, which furnishes water
for irrigation purposes to surrounding
farmers for one-fifth of their crop and
this arrangement will net the Colony
an additional 2,000 bags at a low es
timate. Besides a bountiful supply of
rice for the table, a large surplus for
stock is also assured. The rice straw
makes excellent roughage for the ani
mals, and any amount of this may be
had by baling it on shares.
W. H. West and Arthur Sharp, both
of whom live in the vicinity of Jen
nings, have become members of the
Colony, and are now in charge of the
place. 'Each has a wife and two small
children and they are comfortably lo
cated in two of the three dwellings that
are on the farm. The third houses the
men from Newllano who afe Syno
ground, Reeves, Sanders, Van Nuland,
Waters and Paton. The first thrse men
will remain only during the planting
season and take care of the mechanical
work. Van Nuland and Waters are
scheduled to remain a little longer, and
Paton is to stay for an indefinite peri
od and show his skill in gardening, as
the soil is excellent for truck raising.
Two tractors and two teams are now
being used in planting, and the pump
ing plant is being overhauled and put
into shape to take care of the irriga*
tion.
But the important feature of the
whole proposition is that The Llano Co
operative Colony will, in all probabil'
ity, become the owner of this place,
and in that case a branch colony will
immediately be established. Owing to
certain circumstances, it is possible to
obtain this farm for about $10,000 and
it is the intention of the Colony man
agement to take advantage of thî op
portunity. This is only one of many
good offers that the Colony has re
ceived in the past few months; the ex
pansion and growth of the institution
is exceeding the expectations of even
the most hopeful and it will be limited
only by the number of people who are
ready to become co-operators.
the seat of a farm wagon standing near.
1 resolved to investigate, the distance
being short. There I found Comrades
Thurman and Wobler, and the writer
made a fair crew of four. WE soon
had the wagon loaded with cotton seed
meal and phosphate to fertilize a gar
den patch and prepare it for planting
So with hoe and buckets, the four of
us in less than an hour had the field
ready for comra'de Thurman to seed.
The job was done without a particle
of lost motion and would have taken
a single hand more than a day to ac
complish it—with not one-tenth of the
fun we had. Besides, Comrade Glee
ser got his sun bath. And this is co
operation.
Plant Them Now!
Australian
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way at egg-plant
Much resembles the latter—except
Iii at by many colonists it is
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
<=ï!turs ^ith •sack packet of seeds.
The colonist who introduced Aus
I« ». d »* * 11 *i d» î
uralian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—r50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
Erie Labor Press
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50.
Trial Subscription—JO weeks, 25c.
The Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture. Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries pnd places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure. 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQUITIST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
(Do You Want Her?)
"A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts th^ new girl, as exem
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
Progressive Constructive
Mutual Service Liberates
Our bond of fellowship is mutual
service. Friendly, loving disposition
and interest in the well-being of others
is most convincingly exhibited by a
willingness to minister to the necessi
ties, comforts, enjoyment and happi
ness of comrades. Fervent protesta
tions of loving devotion without corre
sponding usefulness are but sounding
brass and a tinkling symbal, and hence
originated the expression, "Talk is
cheap!" "But," says some bne, "the
scripture says, "By thy words thou art
justified, and by thy words thou art
condemned,' " Quit true, indeed.
Words, however, are something more
than mere sound emitted from the lips,
or certain writings scribbled on any
kind of a surface. Words, with refer
ence to human beings, include the
whole sum of his expressions, actions
and conduct, and mere lip-service is
not considered as amounting to much
and to be entirely inadequate when it
comes to a show down.
By their fruits (conduct) you shall
, TZZ' k"
know them, was. a pointer tfiat the
great teacher of Nazareth gave to his
followers. By their conduct people are
either justified or condemned. It is
the only acid test that defies misrepre
sentation
Because Llano Colony has no resi
dent minister and holds no church ser
vices Sunday morning, some people
surmise that we are an irreligious peo
ple. But they never were more greatly
mistaken in àll their lives than when
they jumped to such a conclusion. We
lay claim to being the most religions
people in the whole country and are
engaged in our devotion every waken
hour of the day the year around. Our
devotion takes the form of faithful,
useful service that is needed by all of
us and is correspondingly appreciated.
And the creative principle (be it what
it may), seems to be well-satisfied
with that' expression of our worship,
for we are blessed with happiness and
plenty.
There is neither prince or pauper
here; we possess all things in common,
as is reported to have been the case
with the primitive Christians. We might
reflect upon some of our critics to their
disadvantage, but prefer not to do so;
for it would serve no useful purpose.
For many years we have tried to bet
ter things in general by political action,
through labor organizations, etc., with
out accomplishing much of anything;
so at last we have taken the bit be
tween our îeeth and made a bolt to
help ourselves by direct constructive
action, encouraged in our endeavor by
the well-known teaching that God helps
tions as late as fifty and sixty years
-
in
And we are much encouraged in our
work by the example set us by the
workers in Europe. In England, Bel
gium, France, Germany, Switzerland,
Italy, Denmark, Sweden, Czechoslo
vakia, Poland, Russia, and elsewhere.
Workers by co-operating are building
homes for themselves, carrying on agri
culture and all kinds of industries, and
are enjoying plenty, while those who
are dependent on so-called employers
for a livelihood are without work and
on the ragged edge of despair.
Working people in America must be
come self-reliant once more as they
were in the early days of the settle
ment of this country and in some sec
tions as late as fifty and sixty lears ago.
While attending an^ editorial conven
tion at Columbia, Md., I met an old
time miller, W. T. Anderson by name,
who is now over eighty years old. He
settled in Columbia when it was an in
land town without railroad, and when
goods had to be hauled in from Provi
dence on the Missouri river, twelve
miles distant, shipped by steamboat
from St. Louis. And this is what he
said of olden times:
"My, it makes a man think he's
thousand years old to recall all the
changes that have taken place! The
farmers in those days did not have to
go to the grocery store every day for
provisions. They killed their own hogs,
made their own bacon and smoked
their own hams. If one hasn't tasted
those things, he doesn't realize what
he has missed. Quail used to sell for
\2/z cents a dozen, eggs retailed at'
3 or 4 cents a dozen, and 15 cents a
bushel was the price of oats. Why,
brown sugar retailed at five cenfs a
pound, and one could buy maple su
gar at 4 cents. Tree syrup was only
50 to 60 cents a gallon.
"I used to buy goose feathers for
feather beds. The farmers around here
plucked their own geese.
"Many is the carpet I've bought
which was woven by women here, and
yards of linsey, too. That linsey was
made on looms right here, understand,
and some of it had blue stripes, some
red, and plaid linsey was not uncom
mon.
"The men wore brown jeans on week
days and blue ones on Sundays. Green
walnut hulls colored the jeans. We all
wore boots, too, and when a young
fellow wanted to. look smart he showed
his red tops."
They produced everything at home
in those early days and didn't have
to pay outrageously high freight rates
to piratical railroad companies, nor ex
tortionate profits to a score of middle
men.
To-day in some parts of Missouri,
hay is as low as three dollars a ton,
and in other sections people have to
pay sixteen dollars a ton, because of
high freight, a virtual embargo is plac
ed upon farm products. Farmers can't
sell them, and consumers cannot buy
them, and that's what some folks call
civilization !
Politicians are doing nothing to re
lieve the distress of the people and di
rect productive, co-operative, action
offers the only reliable avenue to a bet
ter state of affairs. We say co-opera
tive action, because isolated individual
ventures are too impotent to accomplish
much of anything. There is no ques
tion that a man can go out on his own
hook, or with his family and make some
kind of a living on the soil away in
the wilderness; but he is deprived of
all the social advantages that a co-op
erative community can offer. This
writer knows what he is discussing now
because he pioneered in the Grand ri
ver valley, Colorado, near Grand
Junction, over forty years ago. And
he could tell some stories of privations
and hardships too numerous to men
tion. But that is beside the point of
this article.
Man is a social being, and he requir
es proper association with his fellows,
co-operation to the utmost, to make the
most of himself and to accomplish the
maximum of usefulness to mankind as
a- whole. And this he can do only by
identifying himself and his welfare as
being indissolubly bound up with and
dependent upon the well-being of his
fellows. We require co-operation and
co-ordination of human industry, and
not planless, heedless, so-called compe
tition, regardless of the needs of the
people, often resulting in wasteful du
plication and worse.
The concrete requirements of human
life are definite, something that can be
ascertained to a very closely approxi
mating exactitude. And if we had a
government that knew its business and
attended to it, definite statistics to this
end woüld be collected and made the
basis for production and distribution.
Governments have failed to do this in
Europe and they don't do it in Amer
ica. Co-operation jumped in the breach
in Europe and helped those who avail
ed themselves of its facilities, and the
, . . .
American people must take recourse to
coo-peration likewise and are-bound to
?«>re the same success that the workers
in Europe have to their credit.
This is about the substance derived
from the remarks made at the psycho
logical meeting on Thursday night,
April, 13, at Newllano.
Comrade Coleman read a highly in
teresting paper on the many ways in
which sulphur can be used in domestic
affairs. The paper will appear on an
other page in this issue. Comrade Ka
potsy spoke about sanitary plumbing
and Mr. Loutrel on prevention of dis
ease. Quite a diversity of subjects,
you see. And that's the kind of people
we are.
WAGES DOWN TO BEDROCK
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago, — "Wages for unskilled
and low-paid railroad workers have
reached the stopping point, below
which, for reasons of public policy, as
well as those bearing on efficiency and
output in industry, rates of pay can
not be permitted to fall," W. Jett
Lauck told the United States railway
labor board.
Announcements
Sunday. —
Choir Practice, 9:30 a.m.
Esperanto, 11:00 a.m.
Mental Science Study, 6:30 p.m.
Program at Theater, 8.00 p.m.
Monday —
Children's Mental Science Class
at 6:30 p. m)
Orchestra practice, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday. —
Card Party, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday. —
Music Classes: Wind instruments
6:30; Strings, 7:00; Vocal,
8: p.m.
Thursday. «—
Esperanto, 6:30 p.m.
Psychological Meeting, 7:30 p.m.
Friday. —
Night School, 6:30.
Agricultural Class, 7:45.
Saturday. —
Dancing class, 7:30 p.m.
Dancing, 8:30 to 10:30.
What Is a
-operative
Farm ?
The Llano Co-operative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY ?
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type of co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co-operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attradtive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery, tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as broom corn, peanuts, or other produce
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education of his children, the co-operative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
;he child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is thai soma co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get onto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In this section, a very small acreage is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries and farms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—IF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want to live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-operative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colony.
$15.00 an Acre
It is said that a man and his family can live on five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel — board and
Llano Co-operative Colony
eesville - - - Louisiana
S
COAL MINERS GOING TO RUSSIA
The first coal miners' co-operative
¦of the S. T. A. S. R, is going to Rus
sia in the latter part of April. This
-co-operative consists of over 50 mem
bers and has over $15,000.00 fpr tools
•and equipment.
On the 22nd of February this co-op
«rative Sent Comrade Bocarac as a
-delegate to Moscow, who upon arrival
there conferred with L. C. A. R. Mar
tens, head of the Immigration Depart
ment of the Supreme Council of Na
tional Economy. As a result of this
-conference a cablegram was received
^vhich reads in part as follows:
' "Coal miners co-operative of the S.
T. A. S. R., Zeigler, Ills., is to immedi
ately leave for Petrograd from where
it is to follow to its place of destina
tion."
(Signed) Bocarac, delegate of Zeig
ler, Ills. Miners Co-op
(Signed) L. C. A. K. Martens, S. C.
]N. E., Dept. of Industrial Immigration.
Coal miners who are interested in
taking over Russian mines and run
ning them for themselves, may obtain
all necessary information by writing
to the: : Miners' Section, Central Bu
reau, Soc. for Technical Aid to Sovi
«t Russia, Rcom 303, 110 West 40th
.St., New York, N. Y.
CONGRESSMAN ASKS AID
FOR DIRECT TRADING
Congressman Wm. C. Lankford, of
Georgia, has just introduced a bill in
the House of Representatives appropri
ating $25,000 to be expended by the
Secretary of Agriculture in organizing
-direct trading between the watermelon
and canteloupe producers of Georgia
and consumers' buying associations in
the District of Columbia. The Georgia
farmers got little or 1 nothing for their
"valuable melon crop last year, while
•consumers in Atlantic coast cities con
nected directly by rail with the Georgia
melon markets were compelled to pay
:$1.00 apiece and up for fair-sized me
lons.
Congressman Lankford believes that
co-operative marketing will not only
greatly reduce the price of melons to
the consumers and give them a fresh
er fruit, but will also enable the far
mers to secure a decent return for their
labor and expense. The Lankford di
rect trading bill is being warmly sup
ported by the All-American Co-opera
tive Commission, which has success
fully promoted similar direct trading
¦enterprises throughout the country dur
ing the past year.
VICTORY IN ILLINOIS TOWN
Belleville, 111. — At the recent elec
tion in this city the Farmer-Labor par
ty elected its full list of candidates.
'Candidates for chief supervisor and
¦four assistants, together with seven
candidates for aldermen on the Far
mer-Labor ticket were elected. This
gives labor a majority in the city coun
cil.
FARM-LABOR MOVE
MENT GROWS FAST
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Frederic C. Howe,
secretary of the Conference for Pro
gressive Political Action, reports rapid
•development of the farmer-labor-Iiber
al movement in Oklahoma, Iowa, No.
Dakota, Michigan, Indiana, Wyoming,
Nevada, Pennsylvania, Maryland and
T exas.
The Labor News
The "Labor News" published in Al
toona, Pa., is the largest LABOR PA
PER published in the state, and gives
you the labor news from home.
LABOR NEWS PUB. C.
ALTOONA, PA.
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLAHR, Nature Cure
Author, says:
"Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
land question from the Henry George
viewpoint, ¦ I felt that there was some
thing wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the little things over
which we stumble every day that we
don't see. You are the first one who
has harmonized the land problem and
the wage question—Henry George and
Marx."
A concise, clothbound volume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
rency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
THE
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, La.
THE GATEWAY OF FREEDOM
Legislatively established obstacles
and barriers ought to be removed that
prohibit and deter people by threats of
violence from doing right things that
are essential to their livelihood, secur
ity and happiness. The existence and
the inflictions of such invasive laws are
responsible for the disrespect and con
tempt that are felt by an ever-growing
multitude for all human laws. Henry
Ford is quite right when on his page
in the Dearborn Independent of April'
15, he declares that:
"In its truest sense, law is not re
pressive, but liberative. The [know
ledge of the] law of mathematics sets
us free in the kingdom of numbers.
The [knowledge of the] law of letters
sets us free in the realm of recorded
thought. Law is the gateway into
freedom. If we KNEW the economic
law, if we KNEW the law of human re
lations, if we KNEW the total law of
life, then we should be free of econom
ic chaos and its repressive power, we
should be free of the intolerable bur
dens of human misunderstandings, we
should be free of the various slaveries
in which our ignorance and stupidity
hold us to-day."
It is {he application and conformity
of our conduct with the law or pro
cesse8j or mo des of functioning of the
p r i nc ipl es of life, of righteous human
relations, and the right way to use na
tural energies and resources, that alone
constitute freedom.
Knowledge being thus the prime re
quisite of freedom, can there be any
more dastardly activity for those en
trusted with the administration of
public affairs, either in governmental
capacity or as a public utility, than
to deliberately falsify information, to
poison the fountain of knowledge by
means of textbooks in our educational
institutions, the press, the movies, the
radio or from the rostrum?
For instance, in the same number of
the Dearborn Independent is contained
an article under the caption "Banks
use print to crush Money Heresies:
Country flooded by propaganda of
American Bankers' Association; Peri
odicals spread viewpoint of present
money system's friends." The article is
lacking in historical perspective when
it assumes that bankers have been en
gaged in their pernicious and mislead
ing propaganda only since 1896. A
careful student of the political history
of these United States positively knows
that the banking propaganda has been
more or les? active since the very be
ginning of this government.
The present monetary system is a
violation of the law of mathematics.
It has reduced the great majority of
the American people to the most ab
ject slavery, insecurity and wretched
ness; and yet the government whose
function it ought to be to secure and
protect every member of the nation in
the right to, and the enjoyment of, the
indispensable necessaries .of life, the
right to liberty, and the right to the
pursuit of happiness—this government
deliberately upholds and backs up the
bankers in their unjust exactions upon
the people, and aids and assists them in
poisoning the minds of the people.
The writer is not opposed to repres
sive laws, provided they are defensive,
protective and restitutive in their char
acter; but his soul, every fiber of his
being, resents and revolts against the
imposition of human enactments that
deliberately inflict wrong and outrage;
and by threats of violence cower the
people into submission. The enact
ment, maintenance and infliction of
unjust laws is not freedom, but out
right tyranny—disprove it who can.
"Respect for law," sàys Mr. Ford,
"is a sentiment restricted to people fit
to be free; all others feel fear of law.
Laws should be potent to enable as
well as suppress. They should be res
titutive as well as punitive. Restitu
tion is the highest corrective ; it corrects
the criminal it repairs the economic
breach made by the crime it balances
the record instead of merely stigmatiz
ing the offender./ We fail because it
is not justice that we seek—justice all
around for society, for the citizen of
fended against, for the offender. Laws
that merely make for the repressing of
crime, and not also for the releasing
of the normal moral energies, are one
sided. Law and liberty go together,
when law is the instrument of justice.
And such law always commands true
respect."
"If a man kills another, he should
be compelled to take up that other
man's burdens and carry them through.
He should be compelled to labor under
surveillance for the fulfillment of his
victim's economic responsibilities. If
his victim left children, the slayer
should be put to work to support and
educate those children. Murder would
be a serious thing if murderers were
thus compelled to live out the econom
ic duties of the life they destroyed.
And juries thus arranging for restitu
tion would find truer verdicts. What
is more wasteful than for the state to
kill a man, losing two lives for one,
and leaving families without the ben
efit of restitutive labor?
"We need laws that will enable peo
ple to do the right things that are wait
ing to be done, more than we need laws
which prohibit them from doing the
RUSSIAN REPRESENTATIVE
EXPOSES FRENCH DESIGNS
(By The Federated Press)
Genoa (by cable). — George Chic
herin, Russian foreign minister, called
the French disarmament bluff at the
first meeting of the European economic
conference which opened here April
10. The new order successfully chal
lenged the old.
At the Washington disarmament con
ference, Aristide Briand, French prem
ier, had stated that France would glad
ly disarm, but could not do, so on ac
count of the Russian Red Army. Chic
herin, who is leading the Russian dele
gation, told the Genoa conference that
Russia would cheerfully discuss disarm
ament, particularly with the French.
The anger of the French delegation
was expressed by its leader, Louis Bar
thou, who said that disarmament was
not to be discussed. Chicherin was
ruled out of order when he attempted
to speak again by the Italian premier
Facta, who was in the chair.
But he had accomplished his pur
pose of making French imperialism so
obvious that nobody could mistake it.
Chicherin's protest, at the second
meeting, against the seating of Japan
ese and Rumanian delegates on the
ground that those countries were en
gaged in military occupation of Rus
sian territory, was also overruled.
The Russian delegation is the chief
center of interest in the streets and ho
tels. The Germans are next in attrac
ting attention.
The French opposition to Russian
participation in the open conferenceL
based on the desire to keep Russia
from having equal rights with the rest
of the great powers, was overcome by
the British, headed by Premier David
Lloyd George.
The Russians lost again in turn when
their proposal to invite Turkey and
Montenegro was vetoed. Montenegro
now incorporated as part of Jugo
slavia.
Christian Radovsky, premier of the
Ukrainian soviet republic, and member
of the Russian delegation, gave out the
following statement to The Federated
Press :
"Russia regrets that America is not
a participant at the Genoa conference.
America alone is powerful enough to
compel dimarmament. Russia and
America agree on the disarmament is
ALLIES SQUANDER
REPARATION FUNDS
(By The Federated Press)
Berlin. — The German Federation
of Labor and the Federation of Pro
fessionals have issued a joint state
ment protesting against the wasteful
expenditure of the German reparation
money by the allies.
The statement cites The Paris Temps
in proof of the claim that out of II,
000,000,000 of gold marks paid by
Germany up to Dec. 31, 1921, only
2, 800,000,000 were used in the re
construction of France, and that much
of the remainder was spent for the oc
cupation and for the interallied com
missions in Germany.
A French general now receives 1,
886,200 German marks per year, in
the occupied area.
The German labor unions are in fa
vor of making good the damage caused
by the German armies, but they pro
test against the waste of money in
ways which do not reconstruct Europe,
the statement declares.
LAW AND ORDER
(By The Federated Press)
East St. Louis, 111. — "Cruelty to
prisoners at the East St. Louis jail will
shock the community," says City Com
missioner M. J. Whalen, who will pre
sent evidence to the grand jury, which
convenes April 10th.
The grand jury investigation of al
leged cruelty to prisoners follows the
death of John Campanella, an Italian,
who, Commissioner Whalen says, was
beaten by detectives attempting to force
a confession to the charge of murder.
Campanella was arrested Marph 22.
' A keeper at the jail claims to have
found the prisoner suspended with his
shirt, which had been done into a
noose, from the bars of his cell. A
physician performed an autopsy, at the
instance of the widow, who is left with
four children, and reported that, in his
opinion, Campanella did not die from
strangulation.
BRITISH IMPERIALISM
DOOMED IN INDIA
(By The Federated Press)
Sydney, N. S. W. — "Nobody outv
side India has any conception of the
gravity of the situation there," declar
ed Capt. W. W. J. Simmons of the
British garrison in India in an inter
view here.
"Official circles in India expect a
rebellion any time. The British troops
have orders for action. The native
troops are considered unreliable.
wrong things which they are allured to
do because so many ways are unopen
ed." [obstructed.]
& SV
: ä!S§S
Once a
Every day we receive letters from friends of the Colony who express a
desire to help us in some way, but who are unable to take out a membership
or join the 125-CLUB; and, until now, there has been no way for them to do
so. Now comes a comrade with a suggestion for a systematic plan by which
our many supporters of small means pay assist in the up-building of the Colony.
We are now compelled to spend much of our time and energy in produc
ing articles for sale in the local markets in order to meet current expenses.
There would be no objection to this, if we were building only for ourselves;
in fact, we should then extend such business to the limit. But we are not
building for ourselves alone; our plans are far greater than that—we are build
ing for the thousands who are to. come—we are building for YOU, Comrades.
And every hour we spend in manufacturing products for sale outside of the
Colony retards just that much the progress of the Colony as a whole. Every
minute of our time; every ounce of our energy, should be put forth in the
actual work of building and clearing and preparing for you, who are to come
later. The more we are able to do this, the sooner you will be abje to join us.
There are also many of our friends who, for various reasons, will not
make Llano their permanent home, but who, nevertheless, wish to see it grow
and be a successful demonstration of the theories they have always believed
in. Now it is possible for them to assist the movement in a practical" way
Llano
Dollar -Up
Club
Acting on the suggestion of this comrade, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
has been formed, and we now invite our thousands of well-wishers through
out the country to take advantage of the opportunity thus offered them.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB is composed of comrades who pledge
themselves to give a dollar or more a month, the money to be used to meet
current expenses. These expenses are comparatively small, the most of our
food and necessaries we produce for ourselves; but there are some things
that we must buy and pay cash for.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB will do this for US and allow US to
keep on steadily building for YOU.
We are expecting you, comrades, to help us prove to the world that we
are right. You may depend on us to do our very utmost—may we depend
upon you?
If You Can't Help a Lot,
HELP A LITTLE!
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
Newllano, via Leesville, La.
MUk
——
"Ji
Llano Colonist
EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEES VILLE, LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
1 as second-class matter. May 14, 1921, at the postoffice at
Leesville, La., under act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS : Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tion« regarding the publications to The Llano Publication*. Leesville, La.
This will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name a» it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER— Editor.
Thit issue of The Llano Colonist
closes the first year of its work in
Llano's Louisiana Colony,
As stated in the first issue, one year
ago, the Llano Colonist was born to
grow. This it has done in both size,
quality and«'circulation.
Published as a four-page paper; it
has doubled its size.
The quality is also quite as good.
The addition of the Federated Press
Service has enabled The Llano Col
onist to become a real progressive
NEWSpaper, giving without capitalistic
coloring or party humbuggery, the un
tarnished news from the world's work
ins» class centers.
The circulation of The Llano Colon
ist has been set for 100,000. Mechan
ical arrangements at the Colony print
shop are being made so that, with some
extra help which is now needed in the
way of skilled printers, the goal of
100,000 circulation can be reached.
This, of course, depends largely up
on our friends. We can only provide
the best weekly paper it is possible to
make. We CAN do it. We believe we
are doing it now, but we can do bet
ter, and we will soon. But the matter
of advertising The Llano Colonist is up
to YOU. Thousands would read about
Llano and be glad to get the news of
Llano if you would introduce them to
The Llano Colonist,
YOU do your share, and we will do
OURS. That's practical co-operation.
Do this every week, and we will have
a splendid story to tell you next May
Day.
In the face of the fact that the bi
tuminous coal operators have publicly
refused to confer with the representa
tives of the organized bituminous min
ers on wages, "Coal Age," their prop
aganda organ, has the unblushing ef
frontery to flood newspaper offices
with printed statements that the opera
tors are willing to confer and that the
wages must come down to reduce the
price of coal. Piratical profiteering
must stop; that's what will have to be
done and deliberate falsifying of facts
will no longer camouflage the shame
less robbery of the public by the coal
operators and coal dealers.
Roger W. Babson, who is credited
with getting $1,600,000 a year for his
EAGLE "MIKADO
Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made in five (rades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Let Us Do Your
Job Printing
Quick Service
Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesville, La. #
advice, from the plutocrats, apparent
ly has been selected by his employers
as their chief propaganda agent to
prepare the people for the next raid
upon their industry. The masters of in
dustry must have'cleaned up on their
deflation haul about all there was to
he had, and according to Babson's
statement have had their thinking caps
on for some time and intend to spread
their spider's web of debt-enslaving
credit anew abroad to catch the unso
phisticated producers and absorb their
new substance as of yore. But what
else can happen as long as people ab
solutely refuse to dig down to the bed
rock of piratical, parasitical financeer
ing, cast the glamour of the gold-stan
dard superstition out of their minds and
gain an understanding of the fact
that the people in general produce their
own so-called capital cotemporaneous
ly while at work and through mutual
exchange. While the different individ
uals and groups are at work at their
speciality, they require the products
and services of "one another and thus
support each other, and this is the ac
tual capital that sustains and maintains
industrial activity. So-called financ
eering is a camouflaged flim-flam bun
co game to pull the wool over the eyes
of the working bees in the industrial
hive while the slick financial drones
abstract the honey. Babson, unwitting
ly lets the cat out of the bag when
he points out the difference between
usury-exacting bonds and stocks. Those
who get interest wax wealthy and ab
sorb gradually all the property of the
country, while those who pay interest
are left to hold the bag. Go to it, Ro
ger. You will probably delude a lot
of people, but some of us fellows can
read between the lines and appreciate
enlightenment thus gained. Thanks!
The plutocratic coal operators are
flooding the country with misleading
propaganda to prejudice the people
against the bituminous coal miners
now on strike, because the law-defy
ing operators refuse to meet them to
arrange a new wage scale on the basis
of collective bargaining. The public
ought to be well üp on the character
of these gentry. The extortionate pric
es that they have had to pay for fuel
right straight along must be charged
chiefly to the extortionate profiteering
Scientific Thinking vs.
Mental Self-Stultification
Mental Science is studied in Llano
Colony with special reference to and in
the interest of co-operative coloniza
tion. Everything that is relevant to the
special objects of the Colony is a pro
per subject for consideration in the
mental science classes here; but any
thing that is irrelevant and is calculat
ed to divert the energies, mental and
physical, from the solution of practi
cal Colony problems is consequently
a definite loss of time and energy that
can more profitably be utilized in
something that will advance the prac
tical realization of the Colony's ideals.
The way of getting to know the pro
cesses of natural phenomena and their
beneficial utilization in the interest of
people is scientific thinking, while the
memorizing of beautiful phrases and
enticing speculations by no stretch of
the imagination can be placed in the
category of scientific thinking. When
this distinction is clearly kept in mind,
the emphasis placed upon giving undi
vided attention to the solution of the
economic problems qf the Colony wiH
be more fully appreciated. Only upon
the foundation of such a scientific,
just, and genuinely humanitarian solu
tion of the economic, the bread and
butter problem, is a truly broad and
comprehensive culture and civilization
possible. A so-called broad culture that
disregards the righteous solution of the
economic problem is a snare and a de
lusion, deliberately designed to entan
gle human flies in its sophistries to pre
vent them from giving the absolutely
necessary attention to the every-day
problems of finding the best possible
ways to living here and now.
It was for the purpose of diverting
the attention of the people from their
real interests and their reciprocal duties
—from the objects and rights of so
cial life, and the true principles of the
administration of public affairs, here
and now—that recourse was had to ail
kinds of chimeras, sophistries, creeds,
and superstitions of countless diver
sity. And anything and everything
whatsoever that diverts attention from
the here and now and from the only
genuine process of getting to know
and learning to understand the prob
lems that confront us and the methods
proclivities of these forestallers of na
ture's bounty that ought not to be
longer tolerated to claim as their own
personal property what from the stand
point of natural right ought to be dealt
with as the common property of the
whole people. The miners advocate
nationalization of the coal mines so
that the common people can get their
fuel in winter at labor cost. The su
perfluous, interloping operators should
be ousted.
The New York Stock Exchange has
sent this paper a list of its members
and firms and requests us to give them
gratuitous publicity so that lambs may
present themselves to be shorn by these
assumed reputable firms. It would
never do to be shorn by curb brokers.
The exchange members having paid
their good money for a membership,
alone are privileged to fleece suckers
I never could get it through my noo
dle why the police will grab newsboys
and other small fry who play craps and
penny ante, while the big gamblers of
the stock exchange go unmolested and
have all the credit privileges that thé
banking laws make possible and pro
ductive industry and agriculture are
left to languish and perish.
If you have been afraid to go out
in the woods and enjoy the wonderful
perfume and aroma of the countless
flowers scattered everywhere, because
of fear of poison ivy, you can now
fearlessly go forth and enjoy that re
creation in forest and glen to your
heart s content. It has been found that
the effects of poison ivy can be neu
tralized and averted any time within
eight hours after the hand or face
have been touched by the plant, by
bathing the infected spot with gasoline.
Ihe gas dissolves the poison deposited
on the skin, and no after-effects are
felt. As soon as the itching makes it
self felt the gasoline should be applied.
Poison ivy grows three leaves to each
cluster, either as a vine or shrub and
may be avoided by watching out for
it. However, when infected, use gas
oline.
Colonist Ed. Merrill is quite a gen
ius; strikingly demonstrated by a most
excellent periodical produced by his
nimble fingers and alert brain, and cir
culated among the colonists. » He has
named it "Fun," and it surely is very
humorous in a most delightful way.
Letters and pictures are all drawn by
hand and evince considerable talent.
He takes aj sly dig at some of his fel
low workers in his drawings, but real
izing his good-natured raillery, it is all
taken in good part. Go to it, Ed.
Permitting others to think, pray, or
vote for you is slavery. ,
of their real, lasting, and final solu
tion, should be avoided for the time
being. Only as the true causes of their
misfortunes are understood by a peo
ple, can the natural remedies be found
and applied.
Baron D'Holbach, in "Good sense,"
realized the difficulties of scientific
thinking when he says:
"Blinded by error from their very in
fancy, restrained by the invisible bonds
of opinion (prejudice and superstition)
overcome by terrors [the terrors of an
ecclesiastical hell and governmental
threats of violence], their facultie;
blunted by ignorance, how should the
people know the true causes of their
wretchedness ?"
"People [have been taught to] im
pute to themselves the disasters that
daily befall them. If nations some
times feel the strokes of convulsed na
ture, their bad governments are but too
often the immediate and permanent
causes, from whence proceed the con
tinual calamities which they are forc
ed to endure.
"Negligent, ambitious and perverse
princes [government officials] are the
real causes of public misfortunes. Use
less, unjust,, reiterated wars depopu
late the earth. Encroaching and des
potic governments [plutocracies] ab
sorb the benefits of nature. The ra
pacity of courts [bankers] discourag
es agriculture, extinguishes industry,
produces want, pestilence, and misery.
Heaven is neither cruel nor propitious
to the prayers of the people; it is their
proud chiefs [exploiters] who have al
most always hearts of iron."
I have quoted Baron D'Holbach to
furnish the students an indication of
part of the problem. No one would
expect to find a correct solution of a
mathematicatl problem unless every
item of that problem was included and
the proper method employed. In a
similar way scientific thinking requires
that every item of the problem be. in
cluded and its influence in the subject
matter definitely ascertained and giv
en its just estimate and credit. Accur
ate thinking is an ability that is very
slowly acquired. Knowledge can be
gained only by patient, painstaking in
vestigation, experimentation, and de
monstration.
Psychological anodynes and encour
aging suggestions can exhilerate the
feelings and assuage pain, but they
cannot and do not impart dependable
knowledge for the removal of wrong
methods in the production "land distrib
ution of the necessaries and comforts
of life, nor for th.e right way of indi
vidual living.
Wrangling with politicians or with
ecclesiastics does not put right methods
of social industry into practice. If we
believe in equitable co-operation, we
must put our ideal into practice, and
not just hear people take about it or
"chin" about it ourselves. Only by
practicing the right can the wrong be
overcome and be eliminated.
The universe is ruled by immutable
law;
Every effect has its corresponding
cause ;
Like causes invariably produce
like effects;
Hence nothing happens by chance."
To use our minds in such a way as
to get a knowledge of these laws and
how to conduct ourselves in conform
ity with these laws, is scientific think
ing. These laws are self-enforcive,
and all the ills of human life are due
to disregard of these laws. Pain and
suffering are a notification from nature
that its order has been outraged, and
pain, want, inharmony, and disaster are
the penalties inflicted. We
r t , , ... , ,
hy theo
ries. These conditions must be studied,
understood and dealf with intelligently.
I have been a resident of the United
States for half a century now, and for
over forty years have been an interest
ed student in the subject of a solution
of the economic and social problem,
and have repeatedly taken part in at
tempts of putting right principles into
practice; but until I came to Newllano
I never before found a group of people
firmly determined and successfully en
gaged in this task of overwhelming im
portance.
This mental science class in this par
ticular lesson is studying inductive rea
soning. Our reason is given us for
ascertaining the laws by which results
come to pass. The method of careful,
systematic and thorough induction of
generalization is the method of mod
ern science, and connected as it is with
searching investigation, experimenta
tion, and demonstration it has secured
to mankind all the wonderful achieve
ments in modern productive industry.
By applying the same method to human
relations and personal affairs a scien
tific solution will be found for them
and in no other way.
False theories are needed and used
to justify wrong conduct. Let that
sink into your minds, knd you will no
longer be led captive l/y the sophistries
of plutocracy.
BY THE WAY
If you are in bad, to stay in only
m,akes it worse.
* ¥ •¥ *
He that is wild thinks that the whole
world is wild.
* * * *
What we think are necessaries are
often vile things.
* * * *
Be patient, for there are many
guys" you can lick.
^Prohibition has accomplished one
great good—shorter banquet speeches.
*_* * * ¦
Women who pay income tax in New
York number nearly one hundred and
fifty thousand.
#
The reason why last summer's bath
ing suit will not do is because it out of
date—either too long or too short.
* * * *
A new Italian airship will have an
electrically operated kitchen capable
of providing meals for 100 passengers.
* * * *
The Russian ' Soviet Government is
planning to fill German warehouses
with goods to barter in lieu of trading
on a gold basis.
As a rapid-fire piemaker, Miss Laura
House, of Maucotah, Kans., is believed
to hold a record'—twenty pies in 45
minutes are her figures. „
*****
The Brotherhood of Locomotive
Firemen and Engineers organized by
eleven firemen in 1873 now has a mem
bership of nearly 120,000.
* * * *
An Ohio man has succeeded in breed
ing a tailless dog. But really he began
at the wrong end. A barkfess dog is
the crying need of the age.
* * * *
The world's larges shallow oil
field is in Bossier Parish, La. Wells
produce from five to five thousand
barrels at four hundred feet and less.
* * * *
Forty-eight dead, hundreds injured,
and many millions of property, was the
toll taken by a storm which swept
through Indiana, Illinois and Missouri
last Tuesday.
* * * *
There can be no place where people
Kve close enough so that they may as
semble in large or small gatherings to
sing the songs they like best, but that
they are bettered by the effort.
If the Mosaic commands, better
known as the ten commandments, were
not interred to govern the actions of
people, why were they brought down
to us as a part of the Christian law?
5£ if, if.
At Amarillo, Texas, Lonnie Quine,
15-year-oI<4 son of Mrs: Quine, a wid
ow, was accidentally electrocuted when
he caught hold of a guy wire which
supported a street railway trolley pole.
* * * *
The Mayor of Houston, Texas, is a
baseball fan with a punch! He has is
sued a proclamation calling on the bus
iness houses to close so that everybody
can have the opportunity to witness
the opening game of the season be
tween the home team and Galveston.
* * * *
Gradually woman demands her
rights and gets them. She demands
in America exactly the same status as
man and will get it. This does not
mean, as idiots assert, that she ought
to be a fireman or a policeman. You
might as well say that, because man is
woman's equal, he ought to take his
turn as wet nurse.—Arthur Brisbane.
* * * *
At Magnolia, Ark., the six-year-old
son of Mr. and Mrs. B. M. Cooper was
instantly killed when he grasped an
1 electric wire, while playing at the plant
J of the Consumers' Ic e and Light com
pany, where his father is an engineer.
The wire was broken during a wind
storm which blew down the ice fac
tory's smokestack and was left dang
ling, it was stated, when workmen re
built the stack.
* * * *
The fight against typhoid fever in
the U. S. is showing good results by
decreasing mortality rate from 13.3 per
100,000 in 1916 to 7. in 1920. In
'We must have äs big a navy as
England" was the cry in Russia away
back in 1850. Later Germany said
the same thing. And now we are to
be tarred by the same stick. Why
should we be alarmed i£ England de
cides to spend millions on her navy?
We can safely look on her folly and
smile ; because what we did in war pre
parations during the recent scuffle was
the surprise of all the world, and we
can do the same old trick again and do
it quicker and better than ever, next
time. But there seem! to be so many
people that want us to get into the
game of building a big navy, and of
spending our good money in foolish
competition along that line. Better wait
for a cause first. And, besides, we
need the money.
This system of competition in big ar
mies and a big navy was the direct
me» cum a Dig navy was the direct
of d,« downfall of „„y „„i„„
$12,000 TO SINGLE TAXERS
Mobile, Ala., April 18. ~ Herfrjr
Ford. Detroit manufacturer, and Mrs,
Ford have donated the Fairhope Or
ganic school, located at Fairhope, the
single tax colony on Mobile Bay, the
sum of $12,000.
This announcement was made by
Mrs G. C. Johnson, founder of the:
school, who is touring the country lec
turing on the Fairhope school work.
SEEK FREEDOM FOR
BILLINGS AND MOONEY
San Francisco, April 18. — District
Attorney Matthew Brady, of San Fran
cisco to-day appealed to Governor Wm.
D. Stephens of California to free War
ren K. Billings and Thomas Mooney
from the state penitentiary.
Both are serving sentences for com
plicity in the San Francisco prepared—
ness parade dynamiting of 1916.
Brady wrote the governor he believ
ed both should be freed immediately
DETROIT VOTES TO BUY
CITY STREET CAR LINES
Detroit, April 18. — The city yes-'
terday voted 55,658 to 12,198 to pur
chase the city lines of the Detroit Un
ited Railways for $19,850,000, the fig
ure agreed upon between Mayor Cou—
zens and stockholders of the corpora—
Louisiana it was 15.5 while the high
est (22.4) appears for South Carolina^
The mortality rate from this cause is
a very important sanitary index as to
the healthfulness of a community. As
this is a filth disease, dead carrion be
ing one of its fruitful sources, care:
should be taken that all decaying mat
ter be cremated. Flies should be care
fully screened from all food as they
carry the infection.
* ¥ * *
The oldest horse in the world is nam
ed Clover. Thirty six years ago, at tir
age of 15, he retired from the trotting,
track and became the property of the
Reverend Doctor N. Meyers of Cataw
issa, Pa. Dr. Meyers, too old to
preach, can no longer afford to keep
the horse, which is 51 years old, much
younger than the Reverend Doctor. It
may be necessary to shoot the horse.
Everybody will feel very sad about
that. What about the Reverend Doctor
Meyers, retired on a pension of a little
more than $1 a day, after preaching:
all his life?—Arthur Brisbane in the
Shreveport Times,
Was man made for religion, or was
religion made for man?
Classified Section
FOR EXCHANGE—926 shares of
Llano stock to exchange for property
—J. C. Nale, Box 32, Wasco, Calif.
YOUR GUIDING STAR.—If you
wish to make the most of each passing;
day, buy a copy of "Planetary Daily
Guide"—price $ 1.00 postpaid.— Emily
M. Richardson, 803 Santa Paula St.,.
Santa Paula, Calif. 52t6p>
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles to town; 1 mile to
school. About 40 acres wood3(f
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grassy
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00)..
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance its
cash. Will take Llano stock up to>
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S.
care Llano Colonist 147
WILL TRADE FOR COLONY
STOCK—40 acres of bottom land,,
mostly under cultivation, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.—H. A
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
' acres cleared and under cultivation,
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
T hÂM* I' 100: Main road '
A E WELDON, Rte 1, Box 63, Lees
ville, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber on bal
h ° use: te nant houses.
$10,500 for all.-See G. T. Pickett,
L ,ano Colony.
FOR SALE 102 acres; 32 acres
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 barns.
Price, $5,000. Close to Colony hotel.
See George T. Pickett.
39
intr^ 3 q ALE ~. 200 , a . cres near Picker
ing, 3U acres m cultivation; good tim
h*r ™ Y . —gooa tim
Pf ,°. n * he balance; hummock and
two° brîck ' ffrenl r °° m l° US ® Wllh
$ 4500.-JS es Piïï Iw, oS£.J2
Leesville and Louisiana Items
CITY ELECTIONS IN JUNE
The commissioners who supervise
the city prima/y for Mayor, Aldermen
and City Marshall, countcd the ballots
cast on Tuesday, April 12th, and pro
claimed the result as published in these
columns last week. Hon. Oscar E.
Morris, Mayor, and City Marshall
Craft being renominated; Mr. C. Paul
Leach carrying the primary in the
1st Ward. The election to confirm the
result of the primary will be held in
June, and the Hew terms of office will
commence in July next.
POLICE JURY BUDGET
The financial budget of the Vernon
Parish Police Jury for 1922 amounts
to $72,620, some of the larger items
being: $5000 for public buildings;
Justice of the Peace and Constables,
$4,000; Court House and Jail, $7,000;
Court expenses, $6000; elections, $6,
000; paupers, $4,000; treasurer, $2,
400; coroner,•,£ 1,200 ; members of the
Police Jury, $2,000 for attending and
traveling to meetings.
REDUCING TEACHERS' SALARIES
Owing to the fact that the assessed
valuations of property in Vernon Par
ish are rapidly decreasing on account
of the deöletion of the forests, the Par-'
of the depletion of the forests, the Par-'
ish School Board has announced that
teachers'salaries will have to be red^c
ed, the superintendents' annual pay to
be $2,000, while teachers receiving
$100 and more per month are to be
reduced 20 per cent, and teachers re
ceiving less than $100 wilt" be reduced
10 percent, and principals will not
be paid more than $200 per month;
assistant principals^ 150.
FARMERS MEET AT
COOPER SCHOOL HOUSE
Cooper Local, of the Farm-Labor
Union met last Saturday evening at
the school house and transacted the
.regular order of business.
Speeches were made by Lee Rhodes,
National Organizer, from Bonham,
Texas, and W. C. Benton, formerly a
resident- of Newport, Ky, and now a
resident of Stables.
Mr. Benton, who made the main ad
dress, has had a wide experience as a
speaker for labor unions and as an ed
itor of labor papers. His talk was well
received and he was heartily urged to
make a return call in the near future,
B. A. GUY
NEW AND SECOND-HAND
FURNITURE
Only Store in Leesville Selling 2nd
hand Furniture
Next Door to Lewis, the Tailor's
LEWIS BROS.
LEADING TAILORS
Phone 227
MAKE PANTS IN ONE DAY
We Tailor Them Right
Sanitary Cleaning and Pressing
ALTERING AND DYEING
DR. I. O. WINFREE
DENTIST
Office in Lyons Building
Over Stephens' Store
Telephones — Office 132
Residence 79
Post Office Box 126
NOW ONLY 20 CENTS A POUND
Llano Peanul Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
Nature's Meat for Children
One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
value and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in 1 -lb., 4-lb., rind 8-lb. cans, at 20c a pound.
Mail your order to—
I lann Co-operative Colony, Leesville, La.
NEW HIGH SCHOOL
BUILDING IS ENDORSED
By an unanimous vote, the Parent
Teachers' League has heartily endors
ed the action of the Vernon Parish
School Board, in ordering an election
to vote bonds for a new high school
building for Leesville. The new build
ing is to be erected on the present site
of the Davis Mill School, and addition
al land is to be acquired for the Lees
ville colored school, the respective site
now being owned by Mrs. Ellie Taylor.
The cost of the new high schoi build
ing has been estimated to be about
$100,000, bonds to be issued to raise
that sum, the vote to appropriate it
to be taken by tax-payers on May 23,
1922.
THE KIDDOOS' CAFETERIA
pect that it would be a raw food prop
ositîôn : hilt there is rmthxno- "raw"
Say, it's great! I've been eating in
all kinds of joints in many large cities
in America from the high-falutin ban
queting halls in big hotels down to low
priced hash houses; have partaken of
all kinds of fares, triied out many dif
ferent systems of dietetics and so on;
but the delicious food served at our
Llano "Kiddoos"' Cafeteria has them
all beat hollow! We were led to ex
osition ; but there is nothing " raw
about the deal we are getting in. that
"
cafeteria. It's service par excellence
in every respect. I am getting à whole
some respect for our highschool boys
and girls who, under the efficient in
struction of - our domestice teaohers,
Mrs. Martin and Mrs. Green, can get
up such wonderful menues that delight
the inner man. And practically every
thing that is served is home product,
grown in the Colony's own fields and
garden and emphatically answers the
question whether we can live on our
native resources with a decided "Yes."
Of course, some of the credit for this
performance of right belongs to our
gardeners, farmers and dairy crew; but
there is glory enough and to spare for
all.
Many good things out of field and
garden are elsewhere very often spoil
ed by poor preparation at the hands of
careless cooks, but not here. Every
thing tastes so good that one has to
muster his most heroic resolution to
withstand the temptation to overeat.
And, then, everything is served in
such a spirit of good fellowship that
one's heart goes out in good-will to
those ministering to our creature com
forts. And this kindness of demeanor
is something that I never in all my
born days have found anywhere else
in such profusion as here.
I jusKtook a peep into the kitchen
the other day, and there I found the
teachers and .Beulah Gaddis, Margaret
Seelye, Mildred Seelye, Rose Belohrad
Roberts,! Tailors
We handle all kinds of tailoring
work and guarantee satisfaction, or no>
charges. Phone 144.
Goodyear Shoe
Repairs
AT REASONABLE RATES
STABLES, LA.
sky, Dora Cry>er, Laura Merrill, et al.,
as fine a bunch of girls as can be
found anywhere in the world around.
Some of the boys were acting as pan
trymen and-were doing good work. If I
failed to name anyone of the good an
gels active in the culinary department,
the Editor of the Junior Colonist will
no doubt have a full report of the per
sonnel of the domestic science class in
this number; and they are all included
in my appreciation.
The kids eating in the Cafeteria
range all the way from two years up. to
octogenerians, and they all flourish like
the proverbiel Green bay' tree.
HAD THEIR PICTURES TOOK
The Junior Orchestra, when group
ed on the stage of the Colony Theater
last Sunday night, made such a fine
appearance that* the photographer's
camera was pressed into service to per
petuate the lovely seene. The orches
tra dispensed delightful and inspiring
strains and elevated the vibrations of
the audience to a high plane of enjoy
ment. Two interesting reels, supplied
by the U. S. department of agriculture
were shown. The first one told the
story of the making of Roquefort
cheese, in Pennsylvania, and was sug
gestive of the many possibilities that
j_:—' - ¦' ¦' ' ¦*
dairying offers in this sectioiv of the
country. As if to emphasize this les
son, the next film told the story of a
young-business man who carried his
longing for a country life into effect
by establishing a model dairy with
thoroughbred cattle in the country. A
love story was interwoven in the story
to enhance its interest.
Mrs, Cantrell and Miss Docie Cryer
sang soloes and furnished a splendid
treat.
A flute solo by Comrade Henry C.
Sutton preceded a surprise sketch by
Harry Bell, assisted by the Misses Lou
ise Belohradsky, Gertrude West, Rosa
Matz and Maxine Gaddis and Com
rades Frank Newman and "Bill" Bea
vers. It was a one-act melodrama, and
a scream indeed. Harry sang: "They
all go wild over me,"—but that is just
his conceit. He is not the only pebble
on the beach. There are others.
Mrs. Montrose, one "of the best pian
ists in the Colony, accompanied the
soloists and the farce and the colon
ists are indebted to her for many a
melodious treat.
DEVOTEES OF FRUIT-.
GROWING VOLUNTEER
The comrades. Dr. Ferree, Nash,
Dan Cryer and Denver Cryer volun
teered at last Friday night's agricul
tural meeting to take up the study,
planning and operation of fruit grow
ing for the colony. Comrade Dan Cry
er spoke in an interesting way of his
experience in this section of country
with various standard fruits and ber.
ries. His knowledge is purely empir
ical and will prove of considerable val
ue to the memberships The Colony
will make use of the approved meth
ods of the old settlers, learn ail the
information that the Agricultural Col
lege of the State University can sup
ply and make experiments in plant ac
climatization of favorite fruits of oth
er sections.
While prospecting in the Rockies ov
er forty-five years ago, the writer was
privileged to enjoy himself ad libitum
on the wild berries and small fruits of
the mountain glens and hill sides. Ne
ver since has he tasted such exquisite
ly flavored strawberries, raspberries,
and gooseberries. With mountain trout,
grouse, or a steak from deer'or elk,
they furnished an aliment fit for the
gods.
He is not averse to good eating at
the present time, aand does not consid
er gustatory enjoyment, when indulg
ed in moderately, as a capital sin.
Mr. Evans, an old friend of Comrade
Cryer, and a successful fruitgrower,
from Echo in Sabine Parish, about
twenty-five miles away, talked very
interestingly, and supplied some valu
able data that will come in good play
in the Colony's fruit-growing.
Comrade George D. Coleman pro
poses to make a novel experiment in
agriculture. He is .going to cross the
eggplant with the milkweed and cal
culates to raise vegetable custard pie
right off the bat.
The only tangible asset of a bus
iness is the organization—the person
nel. If great employers will spend
more time studying men instead of
rows of figures and seeing that the jan
itor does his work, a new civilization
would soon be upon us.
No man, perhaps, suspects how large
and important the region of the uncon
scious in him is; what a vast unknown
territory lies there back of his con
scious will and purpose and which is
really the controling power of life.
—John Burroughs
hey
stones, fewer people would have axes
to grind.—Boston Transcript.
Subscription Rates: "The Llano
Colonist*-' weekly, for one year, $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign coun
tries, $2.50..
The Junior Colonist
ROSA MATZ, Editor
jthoughtfulness and we greatly appreci
ate this fine gife. It is one to remind
us of the giver day by day as we use
The staff for this, week are: Editor,
Rosa Matz; reporters, Vinita Thurman,
Victor Gaddis and Louise Belohradsky.
# * * *
We now have a very fine steam
cooker, which Mr. Messenger has giv
en to the Cafeteria. It is a "Fairy
Pressure Cooker" and is all aluminum
with a guage to register the pressure.
It also has two safety valves which
make it safe for the children to use.
We used it for the first time the other
day to cook some rice. Hot water
Was put in the bottom and the food set
on a rack above it. Jn ten minutes the
rice was done, after it registered twen
ty. And say! Maybe you think that
rice was not good! Well, the best tes
timony I can give you to show that it
was good, is that quite a number of
the grown-up people who eat down at
the Cafeteria asked how that rice was
cooked. They said they had never
eaten any that was cooked so well. It
is the finest cooker I ever saw. The
children, one and all, wish to thank
Messenger very much for his
it.
-Margaret Seelye.
* * * *
Last Saturday, the kiddoos went on
their usual picnic, and we all had a
good time. We swam during the morh
ing; then had dinner. „ Mr. Pickett
gave us a talk which was, as they al
ways are, interesting. Oh, say! Mrs.
Martin must be careful what she pre
pares for our lunches and always be
sure it is "Llano grown" or we will
not eat it. We have made a resolution
that we are not going to eat anything
bought outside of the Colony except
what is necessary. We know that in
this way we will be healthier by eating
our vegetables and are setting an ex
ample for the grown-ups to follow be
cause so many of the foods bought are
adulterated and are not good for us.
—Vinita Thurman.
* * * ¥
CHARGE OF THE FLY BRIGADE
Last Friday.our teacher, Mr. Mar
tin, set us all to work making fly swat
ters. And now, woe unto the flies!
There is a fly swatter at each desk and
every once in a while you hear about
the death of some unfortunate fly.
The American Co-operator
LLANO'S MONTHLY MAGAZINE
Contents for A?RIL:
/
BUILDING A CO-OPERATIVE COM
MONWEALTH—By George E. Can
trell.
THE POSITION OF CO-OPERATORS
IN RUSSIA.
CO-OPERATORS NOT DISMAYED
OVER LEAGUE FAILURE.
THE UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE
BROTHERHOOD-Some Questions
Answered.
WE, OF NEWLLANO—By Theo F.
Cuno.
BOOKS AND
F. Cuno.
READING—By Theo.
A Marching March at Newllano
By FRANK H. NEWMAN
DE INTERESO AL ESPERANTISTOJ
—An Easy Lesson in Esperanto, By
Howard L. Buck.
CO-OPERATION IN
By E. J. Dunleavy.
AUSTRALIA
MY PROBLEM—A Story of a Life
, Struggle, By John H. DeQuer.
ALL IS DISCOVERED—A Political
Intrigue Story.
MERRY
dren.
MARY—A Story for Chil
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, and points out their successful formulas.
It also carries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal order, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "THE AMERICAN CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
American Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Llano Colony
Lee»ville, Louisiana
IT'S FINE TO-DAY
Sure this wor|d is full of trouble—
I ain't said it ain't;
Lord! I've had enough an' double
Reason for complaint!
Rain and storm have come to fret me,
Skies are often gray;
Thoms an' brambles have beset me
On the road—but say,
Ain't it fine to-day?
What's the use of always weepin',
Makin' trouble last?
What's the use of always keepin*
Thinkin' of the past?
Each must have his tribulation—
Water with his wine—
Life, it ain't no celebration;
Trouble, I've had mine—
But to-day is fine!
* * * *
WHY JOHNNY FAILED
Johnny had a little mind,
It was his very own;
And nothing could be put in it.
Except by him alone.
It wasn't very big, 'tis true,
But there was room inside
For lots of things, chosen cut
As Johnny should decide.
Mother and father gave to him
All sorts of good advice,
But Johnny never put it in
Or thought about it twice;
But all the ugly things the boys
Upon the corners said.
Why, Johnny picked them up at once
And put them in his head.
At school the teacher tried her best
To give him facts and rules
Of every useful sort—but no,
Fod Johnny hated schools.
He picked up brag and vulgar slang.
Dime novels, too, ten deep,
And filled his mind till it was like
A tainted rubbish heap.
So when the day of manhood came,
Wien Johnny searched his mind
For skill and power, it played him false
And nothing could he find
But worthless trash and ugly thoughts.
And so he failed, alas !
Is any other boy who reads
Coming to Johnny's pass?
Last Friday, Miss Forbiss came tc
scho
went to
ry to see him go and hope
come back in the future and
us in our good times.—Rosa
# * * «
SCHOOL DIARY
Those working in the printshop this
week were Clarence Shutt* Maxine and
Victor Gaddis, Arthur Montrose and Al
bert Kapotsy. Rosa Matz, Ruby Syn
oground, Laura Merrill, Nellie Kemp,
Vinita Thurman and Mable Syno
ground helped teach the children at
the kindergarten. Mildred Seelye, Beu
lah Miller, Mable Synoground, Mar
garet Seelye, Beulah Gaddis and Chas.
Miller all helped to make that good
candy down at the candy shop. Be
lieve me, they make it excellent all
right! Margaret Seelye taught violin
lessons to some of the children at the
school house. She reports that they
are doing fine. Those helping at the
Dairy were J. T. Green, Fred Smock
and Clifford West. Maxine Gaddis and
Vinita Thurman shelled peanuts at the
store. Alice Jaques, Margaret Kapot
sy, Sophy Marchick, Katherine Gan
trell, and Laura Synoground also
helped shell peanuts. Those helping
in the garden, raising good things to
eat were;: Emma Kapotsy, Bennett
Babb, Dover Cryer, Roscoe Busick,
Fred Busick, Clifford Synoground, J.
T. Green, Earle Jones, Harold Kemp,
Dawson Cryer, Charles Lee, Robert
Lee, Brooks Merrel, Frederick Tackett,
Elroy Norgard, Max Beavers and Tru
man Benthall. Albert Kapotsy, Alice
Jaques, John Dougherty, Arthur Mont
rose, Beulah Gaddis, Edna Neal, Ruby
Smock, Ruby Synoground and Laura
chick, Willie B. Green, Katherine Can
trell, Laura Merrill, Laura Synoground,
Margaret Kapotsy, Margaret Seelye,
Emma Kapotsy, Vinita Thurman, Nel
lie Kemp, Rachel Jaques, and Dora
Cryer worked at the Cafeteria. They
shelled peanuts, set tables, .helped get
dinner and washed the dishes. Chas.
Miller worked at the bakery. Ruby
Smoch, Ruby Synoground and Laura
Merrill wrapped bread at the bakery.
Freddie Tackett and Brooks Merrel
gathered eggs. Clarence Shutt and
Max Beavers went to Longville to help
the Electrical Department.
—Rosa Matz.
ITALIAN STEAMSHIP TO
SOVIET RUSSIA PORTS
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Naples. — A steamship line between
Italian ports and Russian cities along
the Black sea has been organized by
the Italian ministry of merchant mar
ine and the Lloyd Triestino organiza
tion, which has offices all along the
Black sea.
LABOR ADMINISTRATION
ATTENDS TO ITS BUSINESS
(By The Federated Press)
Sydney, N. S. W. — The labor gov
ernment of New South Wales will in
troduce a scheme of state insurance
covering all forms of insurance, includ
ing fire and accidents, and unemploy
ment.
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP—this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp and the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked; then it flows out at the other
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
, ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining of
white sugar. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
ter—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about V/4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup»—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food value. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and plain. Try a pound of this and
see what Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to: i
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA.
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
, Made and^Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in: —
Progress and Plenty
' By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or low. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
A VICTIM OF PROFITEERING
(By The Federated Pre««)
Nashua, N. .H. — William Simonds,
a 65-year-old cotton textile operative
at the Nashua Mills, who has been on
strike for eight weeks, was found starv
ed to death at a lodging house. Si
monds' funds gave out some time ago
and his fellow-strikers seem to have
been unaware of his plight.
BRITISH EXPLOITERS
LOCK OUT WORKERS
(By The Federated Press)
London, — All the British shipyards
are idle to-day, the employers having
locked out 350,000 workers because
of their refusal to accept wage cuts
of 25 shillings a week.
AUSTRALIAN UNIONISTS JOIN
RED INTERNATIONAL
(By The Federated Press)
Sydney, N. S. W. — The Labor
council of New South Wales, the larg
est trade union council on the Austral
ian continent, has carried a motion to
affiliate with the Red International.
The constitution of the council will be
altered to bring it into line with the
Red International.
BENIGHTED MEXICO IN
VANGUARD OF PROGRESS
<
(By The Federated Press)
Mexico City. — The government of
Yucatan has introduced birth control
according to a statement in El Heraldo
De Mexico by Miguel Canton, Yucatan
Socialist" party. Every newly-married
couple receives gratis a booklet by Mar
garet Sanger.
SHOE WORKERS FORM
ONE BIG UNION
(By The Federated Press)
Manchester, N. H. — A proposed
merger of all unions in the shoe indus
try was endorsed unanimously by three
locals of the United Shoe Workers of
America, representing a majority of the
operatives in this city, John McCud
den, secretary, Manchester, announced.
BEWARE OF POOR TAILORING
Chicago. — The Royal Tailors, who
advertise themselves as the world's
largest tailors with representatives in
10,000 cities, have declared for the op
en shop.
' Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
SURPHUR AND ITS
VARIOUS USES
By George D. Coleman
Pure sulphur, or brimstone, AS
BRIMSTONE, is as inert and chemjc
ally inactive, while it remains uncom
bined, as broken bottles or glass; but
the moment it enters into chemical
combination with oxygen, it becomes
the most active of the elements. Mon
oxide of sulphur, or sulphur one part
and oxygen one part, part of the sul
phur becomes sulphurous acid gas, a
true gas, is formed; and, if the union
is the result of heat, part of the sul
phur is sublimated. That is, it is pass
ed into an uncombined fume and is lat
er precipitated as a fine yellow powder
called flowers of sulphur, which you
all know, as it is this impalpable pow
der triturated with vaseline, lard, sim
ple crate, etc and used as ointment,
that will cure ring worm, mange, many
forms of exema, a a dressing for
wounds, and to protect a broken sur
face or bruised flesh from germs. It
is also used internally for rheumatism,
as in the body it becomes oxygenized,
and as a fumicide and germicide is
entirely without equal; but as sulphur
ous acid gas it is the most active, pun
gent and penetrating fungicide and
germicide there is. When one more
atom of oxygen unites with the sul
phur, or two atoms of oxygen with
one atom of sulphur, wç have dioxide,
and there is 110 sublimation or precip
itation, anl ALL is turned into sul
phurous acid gas. Sulphurous acid
gîis, like carbonic acid gas, oxygen,
sulphuretted hydrogen, and other gas
es, are absorbed by water and it be
comes thus easier to handle and use.
HoW much sulphurous acid gas wa
ter is able to absorb is not definitely
known; but it is several times its like
volume of the gas.
It is a constant source of amazement
to me, when it is so well known, that
the uses of the aqueous solution of sul
phurous acid gas is entirely neglected,
and I cannot account for this neglect
except by the fact that the popular
mind has no knowledge of scientific
facts and is unable to think or act sci
entifically, or that we are still savag
es.
The aqueous solution of sulphurous
acid gas is easily and cheaply made.
There is no need of any expensive and
complicated apparatus. Everything
can be made right on the place, and
the amount made ought to be enough
to meet all the many and various uses
that can be made with it. It can be
used as a spfay, as a disinfectant, de
odorant, fungicide, germicide, for
poultry, and all stock as a medicine,
and for humans as well. It is reported
as having been successfully used as a
spray for the ^hroat in membraneous
croup and dyptheria, dissolving the
membrane in both cases that forms in
the throat.
Sulphur burned in a small 4 feet by
2 /2 feet cement-linëd chamber, with
an opening into another chamber of,
say, 7 feet high, 8 ft. wide, and 12 ft.
long, or 7x8x16, in which a tank is
placed at one end and through the
wall of the chamber a light shaft is
run, with an agitator in the tank of
water to keep the water in cqnstant
motion, and it will absorb the gas. If
it can be arranged for a forced draft
on the sulphur and force the v flame
under the water, if can be made quick
ly, and a far stronger solution can be
made. In the form of this aqueous so
lution, it has many most valuable uses.
Sprinkled in a stable on the manure,
flies will not breed; it will kill the eggs
or the worms formed. It will cure ring
worms and mange and many forms of
exema. Burns scalds and bruises, galls
of collars on horses and mules will heal
quickly as it kills all germs. Sprayed
in the nests and on the roosts of fowls
it will kill lice and the red mites that
suck the blood of fowls..
Poison oak, or Rus Toxicadendron,
it will cool the burning, stop the itch
ing, reduce the' swelling, and cure it
more quickly than anything else, by
keeping clothes wet with it on the poi
soned parts.
A piece of ground infected with po
tato blight, tomato blight or any form
of blight, if the solution is sprayed be
fore and after plowing, they will show
no blight. Bordeaux' mixture sprayed
on plants with the blight is generally
effective; but why attack the effect-.?
Why not attack the cause, the fungus
of blight in the soil, and thus save the
plant from being diseased? We all
know the characteristic smell of rotten
eggs. It is sulphuretted hydrogen gas
Melt sulphur and force hydrogen
gas through it, and you produce sul
phuretted hydrogen and the identical
smell of the rotten egg. Why does an
egg have this smell when rotten? Be
cause no egg can be laid that has not
sulphur in it. In 5 fact, whether in a
plant, or in an animal, there is found
albuminoids, that is, forms of albumin,
or protein matter, or nitrogen in the tis
sue or fiber, there is always found sul
phur. Burn hen feathers and you will
smell the sulphur. Feathers were
burned to disinfect rooms from diseas
es, but the only thing that did the dis
infecting was the sulphur contained in
the feathers. A room where the beds
and very walls were infested with bed
bugs, if tightly closed, and sulphur
burned, will be rid of every bug; and
if on the eighth day thereafter the fum
igation is, repeated, when the eggs are
hatching out, it will kill them before
they can lay another egg, and there
will be no more bugs in that room un
til they are introduced from the out
side. And so with weevils in a barn
or a granary.
But as to poultry; You have often
noticed that a boiled or fried egg will
have part of the white of the egg that
will not coagulate but remains like
milk. That is due to the hen's not
having enough sulphur, and no matter
how well fed, if they do not get enough
sulphur they will lay that kind of eggs
and not as many as they would if they
had sulphur.
You have noticed that hens laid eggs
whose yolks were pale yellow, when a
healthy hen should lay eggs with a red
yolk. Why is this? The lack of sul
phur. And in this color of the egg,
is sulphate of iron; and the proof of
this is, that if you give hens sulphate
of iron in their drinking water, this
light sickly yellow yolk will quickly
change to the healthy color. Hens giv
en the right amount of sulphur will
moult in half the time, and young
chicks will feather very much more
quickly, and be in better health and
grow faster. Alfalfa, clover, peas,
beans, and all plants that gather -ni
trogen from the air need sulphur to
thrive; and when there is no sulphur
available, alfalfa and clover will not
grow. Hence it is that both alfalfa
and clover, and all nitrogen-gathering
plants are aided very materially by the
use of sulphate of lime, as both sul
phur and lime are needed by them.
But one of the uses of the aqueous so
lution of sulphurous acid gas is that
if you fill a,crock or barrel with it, or
rather pour it on fruit or vegetables,
it will keep them for months, or even
a year, perfectly fresh.
Again, if fresh meat or fish is hung
up in the 2nd chamber and fully smok
ed with the sulphurous acid gas, it can
be hung up in a hot summer and the
meat or fish will not smell, but will
dry out and become as hard as a board
and can then be ground up for chick
ens or for hog feed; or, if boiled, for
human food, as the heat will drive off
all of the gas remaining and leave nei
ther smell nor taste of the sulphur.
There are other uses that can be made
of sulphur, and we should make it here
in the Colony and use it as a fungi
cide, deodorant, disinfectant and ger
micide. And, remember, that, while a
powerful germicide, killing ail disease
germs and harmful bacteria, it is the
very best encourager to beneficial' bac
teria, such as the bacteria of nitrifica
tion.
In conclusion, I want to again draw
attention to the fact that ,as phosphate
gives vitality to all seeds and in all
ovum or eggs is to be found, just so
is sulphur found in all ovum or eggs.
Read in all the statements of Huxley
and Haeckel their statements as to pro- '
toplasm or plasm as Huxley calls it,
4 the physical basis of organic life,"
this plasm always contains sulphur.
The "Last Words on Evolution," the
last lecture delivered by Haeckel, to
be found in our own library, on page
133, he states the composition of the
plasm as Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen,
and Sulphur. Sulphur is necessary in
our mesinteric glands to form the pri
mary cells that are thrown into our cir
culation and when absorbed by any or
gan are differentiated into the cell pe
culiar to that organ. In fact, without
sulphur, we could not live. The amount
of sulphur in all cases is small, but
without it we should die. We have sul
phur in our hair and in our liver. Hens
need it to grow feathers and lay, eggs
even more than humans; and hens giv
en sulphur in their drinking water will
lay better eggs and more of them. In
fact, until you have studied the ques
tion, you will have no idea of the util
ity of sulphur. No wonder the eight
years of study of the subject by the
Oregon Agricultural Experiment Sta
tion and the results of sulphur upon
plants was a surprise and astonishment
to them; and, if the Colony will make
the sulphurous acid gas solution, we
can easily make a demonstration, at
small expense, tthat will surprise you
at the very many valuable uses you
can make of it.
CHRISTIAN ENGLAND
WOULD POISON NATIVES
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Because the people
of India, in their resistance to British
rule, have boycotted the drug trade
and thereby cut down the revenue from
opium by 80 per cent in the past year,
the British government has lately in
troduced the drug trade in the mandat
ed territories of Africa and Asia, in di
rect violation of the terms of the peace
treaty, according to a statement issued
here by the American commission to
promote self government in India.
LABOR TICKET WINS IN KANSAS
(By The Federated Press)
Arkansas City, Kans.—A labor tick
et was elected here when George Mc
intosh, retired locomotive engineer,
was elected mayor.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacturing end.
But co-operatk» 'or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of ail, are owned equally and con trolled^ collectively.
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
The. dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests if each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highlands of Western Louisiana, two mile»
from Leesville, the county se?.t v -"noa Parish, It il about !5 ,'aüss
'50m the Sabine River, 100 mile* from Shreveport, and nearly 300
rtiJw frsss New Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very, important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
• in any section of the United Stales. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining • room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make its community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
-! p "ùnation of profit and rent, the Sane, happy, carefree life of the in
haoitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life ai does this one.
As the most direct basis for ihe support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, «sugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and other crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evapojator house
and cuied.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pur« sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Better than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modern brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed. The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the benefit of the
' community, are the following:
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant; bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
ing department ; hospital; hotel; swimming pool; theater: and at
various other seasons other work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
fish desires in favor of cöllective need.
eL -»-operates» TVy bi £ev* I a eo -eperaiiea.
'I |akes careful study and persistent training to eliminate the
competitive »pint which has been drilled into them from youth.
thus, the Colony divides co-operators into two general classes: One
class may join the Colony and co-operate with their fellows com
pletely: lhe other class desires to live near a co-operative commun
ié' ye ! . OWn ovvn la " d > '° oIs > e 'c-. desiring private ownership in
these tilings. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre
lhe Colony is now m a position to interest both. Those who wish
to come mto the Colony may do so on the terms of membership given
in another place on this page. Those who wish to own land may
buy a Co-operative Farm, participating to an extent i n the co-operative
advantages of the Colony. They may market their crops with the
Colony, enjoy the social advantages, and many of the educational
advantages, with the privilege of exchanging land to be applied o„ a
nvembership if desired and if acceptable as members. The Co-oper
ative Colony will retain about 5,000 acres for itself. The idea is to
build up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
The colony employs agents, but does n ot authorize them to close
any transactions. Memberships should be taken out through the
Membership department, Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville, La.
he colony wants members. It wants people to become interest^
^TL e ï. pnse " ° n ! e ? any pnva,e P rofi| . is lhe opportun
ity which co-operators have areamed of. It i s now an established
fact. Will you do your part to extend the field ot it. influence?
. Those intending to visit the colony should get off the train at Stable,.
All train» stop here. You may not be able to purchase a tick*
to this place; you may have to buy to Leesville. but you can get
* V ckel from EeesviIIe here for ten cent» without getting off the
I"!"; We J"" 1 a11 ,raIn * : 'he Colony town is right on the railroad.
Notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so.
If yoil are intere»ted, »end for more information and a»k »uch que»
t.on» you wi»h. Send »tamps for reply. We want you to know
about u. and we want vnu to ask ouestions about everything not
ciade clear to you. Literature. »eilt tree on requeit.
Llano Co-operative Colony
LEESVILLE, LA.
—Advertisement
IS STATE CONSTABULARY
PLUTOCRATIC THUGGERY?
Cresson, Pa. —Expose by The Fed
erated Press of the confidential letter,
which Lynn G. Adams, superintendent
state constabulary, sent to the coal op
erators of Pennsylvania, calling for
their assistance in ferreting out "rad
icals" during the strike, has armed un
ionists with a club which they have
been seeking for a long time.
"For 15 years I have charged the
state police department with being but
a legalized band of strike-breakers,"
said James H. Maurer, president, State
Federation oï Labor, "now they stand
convicted cut of their own mouths."
On March 18, 1922," begins Maur
er's warning, which is going into every
local labor union in the state of Penn
sylvania, "Lynn G. Adams, superinten
dent of the Pennsylvania state police,
sefit a letter to the coal operators com
menting upon the possibility of a strike
and asking 11 pointed questions, such
ai:
" 'Can you supply me with the names
and descriptions of known radicals (un
ion officials) in your vicinity?'
"About 10 days later, Mr. Adams
had a conference in Harrisburg, with
the sheriffs and district attorneys of
mining counties.
.
'According to my information, the '
conference was for but one purpose !
and that is to so organize the state's !
official forces as to more thoroughly
and effectively serve the coal barons
and crush the strike, which, in reality,
is not a strike, but a lock-out.
"For 15 years I have charged that
their presence in a strike zone never
made for order, but for disorder, and
that they played hand-in-hand with
the employers and that their presence
was always a signal for disorder, in
spired by themselves."
OPEN PRISON DOORS
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — The newly-formed
amnesty alliance for New York state
political prisoners is preparing a May
Day demonstration in behalf of all po
litical prisoners in America.
Practically every element in the la
bor movement will be represented, in
cluding the Italian Chamber of Labor,
the National Defense Committee, the
Socialist party, Local Bronx, the Unit
ed Labor council, the United Toilers
of America, the Workers' Defense un
ion and the Workers' party.
THE RE-BUILDING OF L1ANO
Need of Hotel and Other Buildings Daily
Becomes More Urgent-New Electric
Light and Power Plant Provid
ed For.-Next Is New Hotel
fflfflii r
LME
ÜLEE
mm
B_jh_
m
J fflEE
m ffl
Llano Colony will soon have a new
electric light and power plant, a visit
ing comrade having advanced the en
tire amount for its purchase and erec
tion.
We now have half the necessary,
funds for the first brick residence build
ing, the elevation and floor plans for
which are shown here and about which
we have been talking for some time.
This building is to be only a part
(one of the wings) of our complete
hotel arrangement, which will include
several such buildings around a central
unit which will house the kitchens, din
ing rooms, cafeterias, library and read
ing rooms.
It is estimated that this first brick
building would cost $60,000 to have it
built by contract. But by building it
with our own labor and almost entire
ly out of materials from the natural
resources on Llano land, the cash out
lay is proportionately small.
The workers have built all the fine
hotels, but few have aspired to live in
them, and our object is not only to in
spire the desire to do so, but also to
offer the opportunity to the workers.
There are many co-operators who
are not yet prepared to take up their
permanent abode with us in Newllano
City, and for these comrades rooms are
reserved at $250 each, and the patron
may come at any time and occupy the
room as long as he desires.
This plan offers advantages to those
who plan to spend the winter in the
South, as by the reservation of a room
they can live with us the greater part
of three winters—250 days in all—be
fore their investment is used up. By
living with us, we meah that you will
be entitled to eat three meals a day
with us. We will not lose anything on
this arrangement. Our' present hotel
rate is $1.00 per day for room and
board, and there is no reason for rais
ing the price, as food is produced too
cheaply to necessitate that — with the
wastes and profits of eanifnlism al »r .l_
ished.
Any balance atre a ctropormn *¦ ¦
room reservation may at any time be
credited on a full membership appli
cation, and we earnestly invite all co
operators to visit us at any time they
are able to do so and familiarize them
selves with our achievements and our
aims. If one can spend only a week
or two, he will in that short time be
able to learn much as to our resourc
es and the soundness of our plans and
the wonderful possibilities of the co
operative efforts of those who produce
the wealth of the world but have it
taken from them in a thousand forms
of profit, interest, a»4 rent.
wnw wwaenaKen to explain in
the columns of The Llano Colonist, but
we are always glad to answer questions
—always glad to hear from those who
are interested in the progress of our
work. And iï you have $250 that you
can spare—we are sure that it can
never be used so effectively as just
at present. It is an investment and not
a donation that we are asking you to
make,, and you can apply it on a com
plete membership or use it for vaca
tion purposes at any time you please.
o
7=\
7=^
? —\
J b
JZX/J
JtrrdL
Y.i.W
n ¦ n
The Electric Plant Problem Has Been Solved.
The Next Big Thing in the Line of Construction
Is The New Hotel, and We Are Half Way
Toward Starting It. NOW Is the Time YOU
Can Help Most. Let us Hear From You*
Write for more information and tell us what you think of our work.
Llano Co-operative Colony
Leesville, La.
THE RIGHT WAY
All biological, social and mental de
velopment proceedes in the direction
and in conformity with the faculties ex
ercised. Our actions, conduct) general
activity and behavior builds our char
acter. As a man liveth so does he
think; or, vice versa, it works also in
the opposite direction. When one has
by concrete thinking become conscious
that an accustomed action caif be im
proved upon. And then begins the
struggle between the old habit and the
new conviction. But if there is suffi
cient firmness or backbone in the per
son to persist in the better rule of con
duct perceived and rationally accepted,
a decisive victory for the better or the
best is only a question of time. An un
wavering reliance upon definite and de
monstrated knowledge is genuine faith;
the substance of things not seen, that
will win its goal.
Merely to believe something that one
has been told or read in a book, but
has no bearing upon one's immediate
condition or affairs and has no practi
cal effect in our every-day'life here
and now, cannot save any one either
to-day or in any future to come. Ar
bitrary wilfulness and despotic methods
have never resulted in the upliftment
and advancement of humanity any-1
j,«"U c , j
where. "Spiritual wickedness, mental
Perversity and deliberate falsehood,
am °ng the bigwigs (rulers in church
and state), in his day were denounced
by the sage of Nazareth and charged
with responsibility for the wretchedness
of the despoiled masses of the Jews.
If the mere belief that he existed and
was crucified, and the acceptance of
him as a savior would save the race
from wrongdoing, slavery, exploita
tion, wretchedness and misery, it sure
ly ought to have done so by this time,
and the so-called kingdom of heaven
should be established on earth, and the
condition of humanity should be one of
unalloyed happiness! If not, why not?
Would' mere belief in the possibility
of electric light, heat and power, when
not backed up with corresponding and
necessary work, give us those conven
iences? Surely not!
If then you expect no results in any
field of human endeavor that you are
acquainted with, unless the necessary
work is done how can you expect the
co - operative commonwealth, brother
hood, to come about if you fail to con
duct yourself act in accordance with
the requirements of mutual service,
equity, reciprocity, predicated by it?
(
j
Wrangling, quarreling, incitiqg dis
sension, insulting faultfinding, does not
inspire the feeling of goodwill and en
joyable association that initiates and
perpetuates a solidarity of fellowship.
Co-operation requires a self-discip
line of a high order. Without such a
discipline it will never come. The co
operators must be filled with the spirit
of service— not with the ambition arid
lust for domination and arbitrary ruler
ship. Meie politicians itching for of
fice, lacking the essential technical
knowledge and skill that an adminis
tratorship in a co-operative enterprise
calls for, would either soon wreck it or
pervert it from its équitable policy.
An apprenticeship of eight years has
taught the colonists at Newllano that
the establishment of the co-operative
commonwealth is not primarily a politi
cal question at all, but a matter of self
disciplin, and a willingness and ability
to serve in the position open for^the one
who desires to join a co-operative col
ony already in existence and functio
ning successfully. Flowery beds of
ease are not yet available for'anyone.
Pioneering never has been an easy
job, and is not at Newllano, but it is
pregnant with promises of absolute
economic security, sane and healthful
living, and liberation from predatory
exploitation and economic serfdom.
This has caused us to join this col
ony and to stay with it. It involves
faithful work and honest dealing with
our fellow co-operators ; kind, consider
ate intercourse and congenial associa
tion. Present achievements indicate
that we are on the right road of deliv
erance.
RUSSIA SAYS: "DISARM!"
(By The Federated Press)
Genoa. — Russia has accepted the
terms of the convening powers which
were made a condition of her entrance
to the conference. Together with the
rest of the 30 nations Russia agreed to
observe her contracts, refrain from ag-»
gressive farfare, respect the institu
tions of other countries and guarantee
justice to foreigners.
Chicherin, leader of the Russian de
gressive warfare the first bomb when
he suggested that the conference dis
cuss disarmament. The French im
mediately protested. Chicherin remind
ed them that at Washington they had
said the existence of the Russian army
made it impossible for them to disarm
and that he wanted to help remove that
obstacle. He was ruled out of order.
LLANO FtVER
Ta the wnn whu se#, "Life Kamt
a fever."
After reading Comrade Burton's "A
Beautiful Dream of Life."
Whu ses"Iife haint a fever" shore
don't no jest what tha sa;
Mi life is reel shaky, nervus-like, I'm
burnin awl the da!
The doctur whu is tendin me (mi wife's
the wun that survs),
Ses things is gittin seeryus like, up
settin awl mi nurvs.
She s wun uv them air docturs (now
the name I jest cant spell),
Whu ses the things that make yu sik,
will awlso make yu well.
I kinder recken mabe that the proper
sichun'l sound;
Fur many times in "sobern up" it's
braut me safely round—
A throin bricks at tom-kats, an a dod
jin snakes awl nite:
When mornin cums a bottel's bout awl
drives em out uv site.
The doctor ses its Llano fevur that has
got me rong,
An nothin but tu go rite there will
ever git me strong.
So, reckun that the doctur's rite: that
"like is good fur like";
lie tri tu hav mi scripshun fild bi
packin up an hike.
Dont sa mi like haint fevrest, yu
IMMUNES whu feel no feer!
Wurs yet, the thing's contagus, and its
spreddin mung us heer !
An lest the doctur's remedy gits scurce
a littel bit:
Ime trine tu git mi scripshun NOW—
Ime trine, tu "hit the grit" !
Mi fever is so rajin, (an its mostly in
mi hed.)
Till "future's roseate picturs" are a
lookin bluddy red;
An the urstwhile "flours' fragrance"
that regaled on "zephyrs" warm,
Hav seest thare vizitashuns fur a dark
malodrus storm.
An the wuntime luvly vishuns in the
dreemlan ray mi sleep,
Hav changed tu horrid nitemares that
jest make the marrow creep.
An the "painter" or the "poet" whu
cood dwell upon such "themes"—
Nun but Dore an but Dante cood du
justis tu mi "dreems"!
—By R. B. GRACE,
a brick mason, who expects to visit us
soon and arrange to join the Colony.
COST OF PRODUCING WHEAT
A contributor to a recent issue of the
Country Gentheman says that when
a farmer produces 100 bushels of wheat
he uses and withdraws from his land
certain elements of fertility, in quan- '
tity and commercial value, as follows:
Nitrogen, 192 pounds at 15c per pound
$28,80; phosphorus, 28 pounds at 3c
per .pound, .84; potassium, 71 pounds
at 6c per pound 4.26 total $33.90
Here, then, is an element of cost in
the production of wheat which is rarely
if ever calculated. It amounts to
nearly forty cents pel' bushel, and when
you add to this the cost of seed, of la>
bor, of the depreciation of machinery
used in plowing, seeding, harvesting
and transporting the same to market,
the cost of marketing, the power used,
whether by horses or tractors, we begin
to realize the cost of production is far
greater than generally supposed.
The land upon which the wheat is
grown is the farmer's capital. The
fertility of it must be preserved, or the
yield will be diminished from year to
year until finally it becomes valueless,
in which event, not only the farmer suf
fers, but the people who depend upon
him for bread, are likewise impoverish
ed. The nation must have bread.
It is plainly, therefore, the concern
of every person, whether a farmer or
not, to see that the tiller of the soil
shall receive enough for the products
of his land to cover the cost of produc
tion—enough to enable him to put
back into his soil the elements of fer
tility which the processes of produc
tion withdrew—-with enough besides
to compensate him for all other chare
_ _ _ i«ii. i r « . ,
es named, including enough for his la
bor that he will be enabled to fortify
himself against the days of idleness and
non-production which old age is sure to
bring.
It appears also that this element of
cost in grain production has never been
totaled, for this Country Gentleman
distributor declares that owing tq these
accumulating losses the American grain
farmer has never made anything ex
cept in the increased value of his land,
which has occurred in spite of fertility
depletion and because of its dimminish
ing supply in ratio to population.
But we pause to inquire in what re
spect the increase in the value of his
land has benefited the real farmer?
Unless he wishes to sell his farm or
mortgage it, the increased value has
proven a detriment, for it has simply
multiplied his taxes without multiply
ing productive power.— Oklahoma
Leader.
• ,• , .
' 18 ma ing a nve W1
La Prevoyance
Belgian co-operative in
Belgian Labor party
unions to insure the lives öf a
workers of the Kingdom. The i
able success already achieved
co-operative enterprise is shown in its
report of December 31, 1921. On that
date it had insured the lives of 131,337
workers, besides protecting 73361
homes with fire insurance, and provid
ing accident insurance policies as well.
The resources of La Prevoyance Soci
ale exceed sixty million francs, with a
cash surplus of two and one-half mil
lion francs in the treasury.
The British workers are securing in
surance without cost through their Co
operative Insurance Society, a branch
of the great British Co-operativee
Wholesale Society. Free insurance
benefits are given to co-operators in
amounts based on the total of their
yearly purchases. Thus the working
man with a large family who buys all
his goods from the co-operative store
is protected by insurance much great
er than that given to the professional
man's family of two which makes only
occasional purchases at the co-opera
tive store. The Co-operative Insur
ance Society is now extending its pro
tection to the employes of the 1550
co-operative stores of the United King
dom, the majority of which have al
ready adopted the plan.
Co-operative life insurance, like co
operative banking, exists all over Eu
TL _ c. • _ a . r* »1 rv
rope. The Swiss, the Danes, the Finns,
and the Germans show what can be
done when the workers unite co-opera
tively to secure like insurance at cost.
The Danish Insurance • Society "Tryg"
is now doing a business on which the
premiums alone exceed four million
kroner a year, while the Danish Dairies
and Agricultural Accident Insurance
Society writes policies at cost for the
farmers, with annual premiums of over
two and one-fourth millions.
American workers and farmers are
turning millions of dollars a year over
to private insurance companies control
led by the big bankers, who use the
money thus deposited to cut the work
ers' throats. If European co-operators
have brains enough to run successful
insurance societies, surely American
workers ought to be able to do so, too.
If you have any printing to be done,
let us figure on it.
Meanderings
By Robert K. WsBianu, D. C., Ph. C.
Bryan is becoming an anachronism,
out of date. A paleolithic mind fails to
attract these days. When he stepped in
to a room filled with people eager to
hear testimony in a rum-selling case,
he was hissed by club members as he
attempted to speak. His ideas on the
temperance question are well-known,
and generally accepted; but his anti
evolutionary ideas are distasteful to
thinking men and women.
* * * *
For years a man may do splendid
work, may be a power to sway the
minds of the people. The moment he
lapses and fails to keep up with the on
ward movement he becomes a derelict.
It takes but few hostile receptions to
break the spirit of a stone-set mind;
the growing mind will welcome the
chastisement, and go on.
* * * *
If a man becomes "sour," his power
is gone. His courage oozes and he be>
comes a burden. Not long ago, it was
not safe for a political speaker to mount
a soap box. In these days a certain
man persisted in speaking his opinion
of things generally. He was right ; but
the world was not prepared. After he
received six or seven beatings, his
heart was broken, and he became
"sour." Thinking of the ingratitude of
the world, he became a pessimist of the
worst type. He is now a harmless in
mate in a palace on a western hill. The
thing to avoid is losing heart,
* * * *
The^ first requisite in the armamen
tarium of a well equipped man or wom
an is understanding and wisdom. Un
derstanding to explain the whys of
things; wisdom to work out construc
tive plans. When one understands the
reason for a thing, fear of it is gone.
We o^ly fear the things we do not un
derstand.
*
The dawn man walking under the
boughs of the coniferous forest, heard
the wind moan. It was the voice of the
spirit and as he did not understand, he
worshiped, and the wind god took his
place in the galaxy of gods.
He wandered on and came to the
cataract. The roar of the falling wa
ters spoke in a mysterious voice and
meant something superior with power
to minister to him. Another god took
his seat in the halls of ignorance.
The clouds lowered and a jagged
streak of light rent the dun of heaven
and a tree fell and began to burn. The
-cloud god with majestic power arose
and to him the primitive man bowed
and offered sacrifices.
Against rocky cliffs the waves'beat
with ponderous force. Our cave man
saw trees tossed about. He didn t un- (
derstand. Neptune was enthroned and
when the superstitious early man ven
tured on the deep or the quiet waters
he prayed to the god of waters. He
didn't understand.
* * ¥ *
It is a crude but pregnant saying
that "what man can't lick he wor
ships." This is the tribute puny man
pays to power.
At the base of ancient religions and
many of to-day, is Fear. Fear of the
future developed a heaven where ail
was joy. Wise and greedy men cap
italized this idea and got men to act
as beasts of burden with promises of
future reward.
Christianity was a formidable men
ace to the existing form of government
in the third century. It was absorbed
by the state and emasculated. The
thought of the time was handed into
the keeping of a few men. They be
came the soul savers, preachers, law
yers, doctors and scribes; the seat of
all learning. It was found that it was
easier to shackle the minds and less
expensive than to keep iron rings on
their ankles.
* ¥ * *
If Fear were removed from the
world, man's inhumanity toward man
would be largely gone. Fear is the
basis of greed.
Greed is an element
of the human make-up for the season
that Fear of Poverty is constantly
standing in a sinister shadow.
If man were assured that he need
have no fear of the'earthly future, he
would raise for himself an entirely dif
ferent heaven, as well as establish dif
ferent relations between himself and
those around him.
The struggle for existence so often
spoken of as pertaining to the lowly
animal life is equally applicable to
man. The struggle goes on constantly.
Some early person invented Interest on
money and then human troubles really
began. The race has been struggling
under that incubus ever since. Interest
is the legitimate "profit" on business
transactions. Reasonable interest and
profits is only limited by the human de
sire for wealth. Some men exact two
percent per month on money loaned;
others even as high as ten per cent per
month.
This looks big, but it isn't nearly so
much as the ordinary person is beaten
out of every day of his life. Some
thing is wrong; but they don't seem
to be able to organize their efforts so
that they can make their protests ef
fective.
A few organized policemen can quell
a mob of J 0,000 unorganized people.
The forces governing society are or
ganized. There is a tacit agreement
that is never broken when the small
groups" interests are affected; for they
know that what affects one affects all.
Ignorance and Fear of taking to too
forward step prevents the men and wo
men who are carrying the burdens of
civilization to realize that what affects
one of their interests affects all. Pro
bably it will always be so. The minor
ity leads, strange to say. The man
ahead of his time can only find a few
minds anywhere equal to his own
takes the world 500 or 1000 years to
catch up. Christ could find only twelve
who could grasp his thought 2,000
years ago
tf # * *
There's something wrong when two
classes can clash and cause the mass to
suffer cold, inconveniences and finan
cial loss. These tactics don't go back
to the stone age. Juggling a
mon necessity is strictly a modern in
vention. What's Congress for if not to
correct such glaring errors in the econ
omic structure. We forgot, Congress
has nothing to do with it.
# * * *
The r.ca'i strike is to cost $5,000,000
a day. Dollars mean nothing. It's the
wasted labor that counts. It's a poor
boss that can't keep his help employed.
* * * *
It is said that supply and demand
controls. There's always a demand;
the supply is unlimited. It's the price
that controls. The fellow who controls
the Price is the real contrôler. Another
plan will be worked out and a new set
of cantrolers will be ushered in. It
won't be those who say "The public be
dammed.''
« « • *
Nothing was too good for the war
rior marching down the streets between
a line of cheering citizens several years
ago. His job was to be retained for
him, his future berth secure. The pa
thetic thing is that it was believed. A
sample of the protection was seen the
other evening when a one legged, one
armed ex-soldier was jostled roughly
out of a subway entrance for begging.
What memories we have and |how
grateful we are!
When Homer was reciting on the
streets of ancient Greece, a street cor
ner speaker was thrown into prison for
saying: "The rich are getting richer
and the poor are getting poorer."
Three thousand years later the soap
boxer is yanked off to prison for say
jng the same thing. It must be true.
for only the truth hurts.
THE COLONY DIARY
(Continued from page 1 )
is the time for you to act. Send in
your cash and help us to buy while
property is yet to be had at a low price.
It will some day be in the hands of the
great wealth grabbers and out of our
reach for a cash purchase. The Alge
bra .class was held as usual and after
it a very interesting agricultural meet
ing. Our people are especially inter
ested in growing jfruits of all kinds and
as the desire comes the thing will be
brought about, what we want we can
get and we want the best that can be
had and it is our intention to get it. I
just wonder how many of you people
are going to help us do the big job that
is before us all. Don't stand by to
watch us but do all yoif can and let
us do it NOW.
* ¥ * w
Saturday, April 15. — Ole and I re
turned home last night and found new
faces at the Colony. Miss Forbiss,
Chester Potts and August Tiede, all
looking into our Colony life, expecting
to locate here. Chester went out with
Ed Merrill and Krug to make fence
posts and they had a fish dinner to add
to the joy of living in Newllano. Ches
ter likes things so well he has decided
to stay and have the rest of the fam
ily come to join him here. Ole has the
mechanics making some necessary
apparatus for the rice farms and is pre
paring to take one farmer, another me
chanic and a'gardener down to help
get the croo planted and the machinery
all in good repair. This being Satur
day, of course the school children and
I had our usual lunch at the pool and
a big swim afterwards, and then Miss
Forbiss was shown some real co-opera
tion in aetion over where the fellows
are clearing the land for sorghum plant
ing. Here we found our mortar-mixer,
mechanics, carpenters, planing-mill
men, wood turner, cabinet makers,
brick masons and farmers all mixed in
to one big job, clearing land like a
bunch of beavers building a dam. Mar
chick, and Jones were handling the ca
bles that run from the stump puller to
the stumps to be extracted, while Bu
sick drove the team that works the pul
ler and extracts the stumps from the
ground. Usually it lifts the stump.
roots and all cut slick and clean, but
sometimes where the stump is old and
rotten, it will break off and then the
other fellows, Sharrer, Fred Anderson,
Lee, Reeves, C. Hoover, Wobleri Oak
ley, Matz, Darth, W. Beavers, and
Jaques dig around Mister Stump, set
fire to him and burn him out. Also
this crew fills up the holes apd the
ground is made ready and planted.
Within the next week this certain field
which lies just north of the Ford ranch,
is to be planted to sorghum. Sugar
will be made for our use and ensilage
for the cows and mules. Comrade^
Phillips is the cook for this gang at
noon and some of them are steady
boardèrs for him to feed. Siemens and
Vernon are dragging the stumps into
piles with a tractor, and at night they
haul a load, of stumps to the big boiler.
KHng is using the other Fordson plow
ing and getting the land ready to plant.
After he is through his days work, he
also brings in a load of stumps. J. Hoo
ver is co-operating with our neighbor
Ford and is building a line fence be
tween the two places and John, Krug,
and Merrill will have an extra mile
and a half of fencing to build to finish
enclosing our newly-cleared land. As
we came home from our tour of inspec
tion we found the children helping at
the garden again and Miss Forbess re
marked, "I have seen enough to con
vince me complete co-operation is a
success and I hope to convince others
who are near and dear to me that this
is the place for them to come and live.
As usual we had our dancing class
well attended and the dance was enjoy
ed until 10,30 oclock. The floor was
crowded and it makes us long for the
time when we can begin our dancing
at the roof garden. We expected to do
this by May 1st but so nyich planting
and seasonable work to do we will be
compelled to do our May Day dance in
the hotel again. Work to do, well I
say yes and no sign of unemployment,
down in our old town and no chance
of it either.
• * * *
—Sunday—
Well, Ole, Reeves, Waters and Pa
ton started for the rice plantation to
day. Reaves, Sanders and Ole will re
pair the machinery and return in two
or three days while Van and Waters
will stay and grow the garden for the
families and prepare wholesome food
for their use and the threshers who will
journey there later this fall. We will
soon have to take two firemen to this
job for about three months work. Quite
a crowd of the colonists drove to the
Anacoco creek for a day's outing and
the rest of us rested up at home, went
swimming etc. We had a real ball
game on the new grounds and our team
the short four regular players played a
fine game of ball allowing their oppon
ents but one score and that was on all
We will now take pride in build
ing up a real ball team such as co-oper
ators can have. The swimming pool
was a popular place today and both
young and old had a good time, swim
ming, diving, and playing water games.
In the a.m. Doc Thurman and a crew
of volunteers planted a large pafch of
cucumbers in about an hour's time. I
think the reason Doc planted so many
of them is that he expects to grow me
lons, pumpkins, squashes and, some
say, a new kind of genej-al fruit, from
grafting and budding to his cucumber
vines. Now, far be it from me to poke
fun at Doc; because he is so serious I
wouldn't offend him for the world; but
I do hope he succeeds in his new ven
ture, provided the tales are true. With
all Doc's wisdom, I have "me doots"
as to his success of this job. The men
tal science class was a good one to
night and two important questions
came up. One is "are people who are
working extremely hard to make the
Colony a success, even to the detriment
of their own health, doing a greater
service than if they would conserve per
sonal energy and let Colony affairs go
more slowly?" Well, it is a big ques
|tion, but I am of the opinion we are
taking the right course in doing the big
things as they present themselves for
our consideration. Those who work
extra hours usually do it because they
want too, and derive a certain amount
of pleasure out of it; and they are
accomplishing much good for our
cause in doing it. Most people are
from Missouri and must be shown, and
I believe it is up to us "to show them
soon, before it is too late. Many peo
ple couldn't believe we could be forc
ed into war a few years ago, but we
were. Few people believe we can be
thrown back into barbarism, but un
less the workers arouse themselves and'
get busy, they are sure to once more
have to make the slow climb from the
dark ages back to the light of a co-op
erative commonwealth. It is the next
step in civilization and the question is
"will we take it now or shall we step
back?" Comrades, we know it can be
done. Why not join us now and take
the step? You will soon be compelled
to move one way or the other. Which
way are you going? We are doing our
part and some times more. What are
you doing? The program at the thea
ter was good and closed a pleasant
day.
? * * #
Monday, April 17.—Lindsey, Kemp,
Denver Cryer and Smock are planting
corn out at the Lamb place. The land
clearing crew is the same as on Sat
urday and in a couple more days the
whole 80 acres should be cleared,
plowed, and ready for planting. Ches
ter Potts joined the garden crew, work
ing with Comrade Messenger, Benton,
Babb, Thurman, Buck* and Gault, in
the big garden and they are doing lots
of planting. We are now being sup
plied with lettuce, cabbage, carrots,
beets, turnips, rutabagas, radishes, on
ions, several kinds of greens and all the
strawberries we can eat. I should
sound good to you people who are still
in the frozen north. Our sugar cane
is coming up in. excellent shape and we
should have a fine crop this year; in
face, our prospects are better in the
food line than ever before. Out at the
dairy most of the cows are now giving
milk and Baldwin and wife, Miss Cry
er, Comrades Green and Rowe are busy
all the time. Some fine calves and
lots of young pigs have recently made
their appearance. A new churn just
arrived and we will soon be making
our own butter. Langridge and Rech
steiner have the stairs to the roof-gar
den built and painted and as soon as
we can get in some more logs and saw
out the lumber, we'll finish the roof
and lay the floor, and the job will be
done. Mother Shutt is back on the
job and Dad Bell is up and around; he
is now chief peanut shucker and is de
monstrating that hand methods ^re bet
ter than no methods at all. Joe is
again running the bakery wagon into
Leesville and Daniel is helping him to
bake the bread and pastry. H.-Bell is
kept "busy making peanut butter and
"sich" while Mrs. Gaddis and Mrs.
Sanders do their service as counter
jumpers in the store ahd keep Joe Gad
dis busy. Roede is again in the har
ness shop »and jumps me every day to
get a new shoe maker. Yes, we need
a shoe-makes, broom-maker, brick ma
son, tanner, and several other kinds of
workers very much. We are expect
ing to soon have a dentist come to live
$nd work among us. Our Colony life
is growing more and more complete ev
ery month and we are nearing our time
of a complete community rapidly. Som?
day we will be independent from the
outside necessaries, and then we are
ready to build for the larger program,
by establishing other colonies. Now,
comrades, is the time we need your
help and as soon as we are independ
ent, we can then take you and all oth
ers who may wish to come. That is
why we are calling upon you to help
finance the project now, so as to bring
the job to a conclusion. Later we can
then take workers who are unable to
Llano 125 Club
Is YOUR Club
Don't merely WATCH It Grow — Get In and Help!
Do you intend some day to make Llano your home?
Do you want a comfortable dwelling and the conveniences of a modern city
when you come?
Of course you do.
Then join the LLANO 125-CLUB immediately. This club is YOUR club.
Its purpose is to furnish the cash with which to build a place for YOU. We
will do the pioneering; we will do the actual work; but you must supply the
necessary cash.
125,000 Dollars will completely finance this Colony. It will give us com
plete ownership of 20,000 acres of land and furnish the funds with which to
build our modern city. It will give steady employment to several thousand per
sons and lay the foundation for a great co-operative commonwealth. It will
permit us to admit people who are good co-operators and are willing to give
their labor and moral support to our undertaking, but have not the money
with which to buy a membership. \
We want 125 persons to pledge themselves to furnish 1,000 Dollars each
THIS YEAR. This will enable us to do in ONE YEAR what is would take sev
eral years to accomplish without your assistance. We CAN do it alone, but with
your help we can do it much sooner.
v
On another page you will find a list of those who have already joined
the Club, and this will be published frequently, so that you may note its pro
gress. But don't merely WATCH it grow—get in and MAKE it grow.
On May 1, 1922, Llano Colony will have been eight
and within the last two years we have made
previous six years.
years in existence;
more progress than during the
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LOUISIANA
What will we do in the next two years?
THAT IS UP TO YOU!
Let the Colonists Hear from YOU today
finance themselves. The print shop is
very busy getting out our two weekly
papers, the magazine, and a new gate
way to freedom. Cantrell, Gleeser,
Buck, Newman and Mrs. Cantrell are
kept bustling to prevent their being co
vered up with work. Comrades Lou
trell, Sr., and Cuno.are acting as re
porters and solicitors and office devils
to assist all they can. Charles Strauss
is doing the broom factory work every
day, and on rainy days Babb goes in
and helps him get them out. At the
office—-well, don't mention it! We are
snowed under, and it is impossible to
get out all our correspondence and do
our other work. New subs to our pub
lications are coming in and we are af
ter the 100,000 sub list for the Colon
ist this year. Can't you help it along?
We are also doing all we can to bring
co-operators and their cash to combine
with us to completely finance this Col
ony now. Especially we are urging
you to help make this year's land pur
chase, which calls for $24,000. Don t
delay, comrades, you want the Col
ony to succeed; you must help to make
it a bis; success. And as our May pur
chase date nears we are much in need
of your assistance right now. Regard
less of the size of the amount you can
send, send it now. There will be more
opportunity for our consideration this,if
year than you can think of. Now is '
the time for us co-operators to make j
our harvest. You can help and it is j
your duty to do so if you expect to
bring about the Co-operative Common-j
wealth; you or some one else must
join it in order to make it materialize,
We have it started here and succeeding
on a smali scale; it is up to you to)a
make it grow. Are you with us? The
children's mental science class and or
chestra practice were the principal en
tertainments of this -evening,
| * * * *
Tuesday, April 18. — To-day's mail
brot a book from Geo. B. Sander, that
will be much used in giving informa
tion to out children. Also a package
of magazines arrived from Geo. W.
Guyer of N. Mex. And a box of tools
from J. B. Mars, of N. Mex. arrived by
express. We wish to thank these com
rades for their gifts. It has just been
.proven to younr truly that "ye lady re
porter" does not know everything about
| this place. A week or so ago some
fine aluminum steam cookers arrived
at the Colony, and one was turned over
to the hotel, the other to the cafeteria,
and just to-day a little bird whispered
it ino my ears that these were donated
by Comrade Messenger. Well, useful
donations from this fellow are so com
mon that I was not surprised;
must say we are extremely proud of the
cookers and will some time allow Com
rade M. to eat therefrom. A letter from
a comrade seems to me to hit the nail
on the head and I am going to give you
a part that seems to me is worth your
thinking about. If you have money
you are in a position to help; ir you
have none, you must come to the same
conclusions reached by this comrade.
"I have been reading your interest
ing paper and magazine since 1919.
Mother is also reading them.- We are
both rather interested and extremely
anxious, and entertain hope for the
day in the near future when we both
can join your Colony. But I venture
to say that, if I must depend upon pay
ing the required sum with savings from
my earnings, I am awfully in doubt
whether Mother and I will ever be be
stowed the pleasure to arrive at the Col
ony; as I am not an exception to the
rule of being out of employment for
nearly two years. The isolated state
of affairs everywhere may intensify
sufficient enthusiasm into the minds of
the more fortunate comrades to drive
them in sufficient numbers to the Col
ony and jointly furnish sufficient cash
to insure themselves and others. It
would be a kind deed and a humane act
c , r.
one-hundred and fifty comrades, fin
' an ci ally able, could in uc o join
j the Colony. _ rm won c ear e way
j for the less fortunate w o may en er
and give all f they have, ir anyt ing,.
If the 125-CLUB is not completely i -
led by the end or this y e «* r »
cause renewed and prolonged hardship
to me and other who never have had
chance to accumulate, except a tew
hundred dollars every twenty years.
and instead of accumulating more meet
with reverses and unforseen occurrenc
es such as sickness, robbery, fires, fre
quent and periodical lay-offs."
This comrade in a few words tells a
world-wide story. Our intention is to
admit such as these as soon as the
Colony is safely financed. Now, com
rades, there are so many ways you may
help and every dollar that comes in
does help—that I once more want to
urge you to do all you can at once and
let us make a way for those who are
so unfortunate as not to be able to
come on account of financial condi
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
t AN INVITATION,
If you receive a sample copy of this
paper, it is an invitation to you to sub
scribe. Some friend of yours has ask
,ed us to send it. ! ,
Sample trial subscription is ten cents '
a month. Regular subscription is
$1.50 a Year; five cents a Copy.
A WEEKLY MESSENGER FROM THE LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
MEMBER THE
FEDER AT ED
'¦"«lui
PRESS
To expound
co-operation
be formed to
Llano
VOL, II., No. 1.
PUBLISHED AT LLANO COLONY LEESVILLE LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 1922.
PRICE FIVE
TO THE COMRADES OF LLANO COL
ONY, WHO ARE TO CELEBRATE THEIR
EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY ON MAY DAY
COMING, I CHEERFULLY SEND GREET
INGS AND GOOD WISHES. THE ANNI
VERSARY OF THE C9L0NY COMES AT
A FITTING TIME, WHEN ALL THE NA
TIONS OF THE WORLD JOIN IN CELE
BRATION OF INTERNATIONAL LABOR
DAY. THE COMRADES AT LLANO SEEM
TO BE PROSPERING IN tHEIR WORK,
JUDGING FROM THE ENTHUSIASTIC RE
ONCE MORE THE WINTER SNOWS
HAVE GONE TO MAKE ROOM FOR
FLOWERS AND GRASSES; FOR THE
NEW LIFE WHICH COMES TO CHEER
THE EARTH. ONCE MORE THE SONG
BIRDS SWELL THEIR THROATS WITH
POEMS OF GLADNESS. AS IF THEY
WERE CHANTING PRAISES FOR THE,
GIFT OF LIFE.
IT IS MAY DAY, THE FEAST OF THE
SPRINGTIME—THE HOPE DAY, OF THE
TOILING MASSfc OF THE EARTH.
FOR, AS THE LIFE FLOOD CAUSES
THE SKYLARK TO POUR FORTH ITS
FLOODS OF MELODY, AND THE LILACS
SCENT THE BREEZE WITH. FRAGRANT
BENEDICTIONS, SO IT KINDLES THE
FIRES OF HOPE IN THE TOILING MASS
ES, AND AWAKENS IN THEIR SOULS
THE DORMANT PASSION FOR PEACE
AND BROTHERHOOD.
THE LOVE VIBRAJION WHICH FILLS,
AT THIS TIME, THE NATURAL WORLD,
EXPRESSING IÏSELF IN MATING BIRDS,
BLEATING LAMBS, AND THE DELICATE
LLANO!—WHERE 200 PEOPLE ARE
ACTUALLY PRACTICING THE PRIN
CIPLES OF CO-OPERATION!
WHERE, I INQUIRE, COULD THIS DAY
OF REVOLUTIONISTS TJffi WORLD
OVER BE MORE FITTINGLY CELEBRAT
ED THAN IN LLANO? WE ON THE OUT
SIDE IMMERSE OURSELVES IN THEORY.
WE DIVIDE,INTO DOZENS OF FACTIONS
WHILE THE EXPROPRIATING CLASSES
LAUGH AT OUR ANTICS. MOST OF US
MAINTAIN A CLAM-LIKE SILENCE FOR
FEAR THE BOSS WILL.FIND OUT WHAT
WE REALLY -BELIEVE. THOSE OF US
WHO ARE IN BUSINESS TAL.K BRO
The Message of May
BY EUGENE V. DEBS
PORTS WHICH HAVE RECENTLY COME
FROM MEMBERS OF THE COLONY/
THE CO-OPERATIVE WORK IN WHICH
THEY ARE EMPLOYED IN THE DEVEL
OPMENT OF THEIR COLONY LIFE AP
PEARS TO BE FRUITFUL OF ALL HOP
ED-FOR RESULTS AND THERE IS NO
REASON WHY SUCCESS SHOULD NOT
COME TO THEM IN INCREASING MEAS
URE. MAY ALL FAVORABLE INFLU
ENCES COMBINE TO SPEED THEM ON
IN THEIR UNDERTAKING AND TO REAL
IZE THEIR HAPPIEST EXPECTATIONS.
BY JOHN H. DeQUER
FLOWERS, TOUCHES THE SPIRITUAL
SPRINGS IN THE HUMAN SOUL, RAIS
ING IT OUT OF SORDID SELFISH DE
SIRES INTO A PLANE OF ACTIVITY
WHERE IT RESOLVES TO FORGET ITS
INDIVIDUAL SALVATION WHILE IT CON
CENTRATES ITS ENERGY ON THE RE ; '
DEMPTION OF ITS KIND FROM INTEL'
LECTUAL, SPIRITUAL AND ECONOMIC
DEGRADATION.
MAY DAY SHOWS US THE LOVE
PATH, BY WHICH ALONE THE RACE
CAN BE REDEEMED; IT SHOWS US THE
WISDOM OF THE OLD SAYING THAT,
^"HE WHO WOULD SAVE HIS SOUL
SHALL LOSE IT." IT KINDLES THE
CONSCIOUSNESS THAT AS THE PER
FUME OF MILLIONS OF FLOWERS
TENDS TO SWEETEN THE BREEZE AND
GLADDEN THE EYE; AS THE SONG OF
MANY BIRDS PRODUCE THE LOVE-FIL
LED MELODY-OF THE WOODS, SO THE
LOVE-BOUND COMRADESHIP OF MAN
SHALL EVOLVE THE HIGHEST GÖOD
• F£R HUMAN KIND.
BY ALANSON SESSIONS
THE^HOOD IN THE EVENINGS AtyD
GOUGE OUR BROTHERS DURING THE
DAY. ALL OF US ARE PHRASE-MONG
ERS.
IN LLANO—AND I KNOW, BECAUSE
I HAVE LIVED THERE AND HOPE TO BE
THERE AGAIN SOON—THE ECONOMIC
BARRIERS TO BROTHERHOOD HAVE
NEVER BEEN ERECTED. THE ALTRUIS
TIC INSTINCTS HAVE FREER PLAY
THERE THAN ELSEWHERE. AND SO
LLANOITES MAY NOT ONLY OBSERVE
THE LETTER, BUT THE SPIRIT OF MAY
DAY.
MAY HER CELEBRATIONS BE CON
TINUOUS'!
LLANO HAS WEATHERED THE
STORM OF EIGHT YEARS OF PIONEER
LIFE. MANY REAL HARDSHIPS HAVE
BEEN ENDURED, AND MANY HAVE
BEEN IMAGINED AND SEEMED REAL
THAT WERE NOT ENDURED. IT IS FAR
EASIER FOR THOSE WHO HAVE A FIX
ED PURPOSE AND AN UNDYING HOPE
TO BEAR REAL HARDSHIPS, THAN. IT
IS FOR THOSE WITHOUT HOPE TO EN
DURE IMAGINARY HARDSHIPS.
THE COMFORTS OF THE OUTSIDE
COULD NOT BE TRANSPORTED TO
LLANO. WE HAD TO PRODUCE THEM
FROM THE RAW MATERIAL. AT FIRST
CHAOS REIGNED AND WE WERE LOST
IN OUR OWN CONFUSION.
WE HAD NOT LEARNED THAT THE
THINGS ABOUT US WERE AS ORDERLY
OR AS DISORDERLY AS OUR OWN
MINDS.. INDEED, WE FOR A LONG TIME
LOOKED THE FACT SQUARE IN THE
FACE BEFORE WE SAW THAT THE
MATERIALS WITH WHICH WE WORK
ARE ARRANGED UNDER THE DIREC
TION OF THE MIND, AND MUST RE
FLECT THE MENTAL STRIFE. WE ARE
THE LLANO COLONY MARKS THE
FIRST, INTELLIGENT EFFORT SINCE THE
DAYS OF THE OWEN EXPERIMENT TO
LIVE ON ANY SORT OF SENSIBLE BA
SIS.
IT IS EXTREMELY TRYING TO DÎS
/ TINGUISH THE COMMON-SENSE FROM
DUCT OF CAPITALISM, USE WHAT
SLIGHT AMOUNT OF IDEALISM IS LEFT,
AND WITH IT BUILD A CO-OPERATIVE
COMMONWEALTH.
IT IS EXTREMELY TRYING TO WIN
NOW OUT THE COMMON-SENSE FROM
THE FANATICISM, STEER CLEAR OF
DANGEROUS SENTIMENTALISM, USE
SUCH BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AS ARE
SAFE, AND ESCAPE THE BONDAGE OF
SELFISH COOMMERCIALISM.
BUT THAT IS WHAÏ THE COLONY IS
DOING. IT WOULD BE INDEED SUR
PRISING W A GROUP COULD BE GATH
ERED TOGETHER WHQ WOULD NOT
MAKE MISTAKES. IT WOULD BE A
I wish I could write a verse of two
To tell how J wish to-day
That I could help celebrate with you
And enjoy the first of May.
I'd give you a reason along with rhyme
As I "modeled the lilting verse,
And round it out with stirriq^ words
And syllables sure and terse.
¦ ¦ ) ¦
BY JOB HARRI MAN
GRADUALLY COMING INTO A KNOWL
EDGE OF THIS FACT; AND AS THIS
KNOWLEDGE BECOMES MORE GENER
AL, ORDER IS EVER MORE AND MORE
REFLECTED IN OUR VARIOUS UNDER
TAKINGS.
THE DISCOVERY OF THIS FACT WAS
THE REAL BIRTHDAY. OF LLANO. AS
THE FACT GROWS INTO OUR CON
SCIOUSNESS AND BECOMES INGRAINED
INTO OUR UNDERSTANDING, OUR HOPE
GROWS BRIGHTER, OUR CONFIDENCE
MORE UNYIELDING, OUR VISION BE
COMES CLEARER, AND OUR GOAL
LOOMS UP EVER NEARER AND MORE
EASILY WITHIN OUR REACH. GRADU
ALLY, AS WE CONSCIOUSLY DISPEL
THE CLOUDS OF GLOOM AND ABAN
DONED HOPE, WE FIND OURSELVES
ENTERING INTO A SEASON WHERE THE
DAYS GROW EVER BRIGHTER AND THE
WORLD APPEARS. WITH ALL ITS BEAU
TY BEFORE US. THUS, WE DISCOVER
ED THAT WE CAN MAKE THIS WORLD
AN EVERLASTING MAY DAY. THE MAY
DAY ABOUT US IS A COUNTERPART*
OF THE MAY DAY WITHIN US.
BY ERNEST S. WOOSTER
MARVEL OF MARVELS IF THERE WERE
NO SETBACKS.
LEARNING HOW TO PRACTICE THE
PRINCIPLES OF CO-OPERATION IS THE
TASK OF A WHOLE GENERATION. IF
THE COLONY IS ABLE TO LAY THE
FOUNDATION IN THE YEARS FROM
MAY 1, 1914 to MAY 1, 1924, THEN IT
WILL HAVE ESTABLISHED A GREATER
SCHOOL THAN YALE OR HARVARD OR
ANY OTHER INSTITUTION OF LEARN
ING.
DURING THE NEXT TWO YEARS THE
GREATEST OPPORTUNITY WILL COME
TO THE COLONY; FOR NOW ARE THE
YEARS WHEN THE INTOXICATION OF
HIGH WAGES IS GONE, THE BITTER
DREGS OF RETURNING NORMALCY
TASTED, AND THE DESIRE FOR BETTER
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS WILL TURN
THE EYES OF THOUSANDS TO THE
WONDROUS SIMPLICITY AND SANITY
OF, T&; LLANO SYSTEM OF LIVING.
The reason is easy—I want to b e there
And dance and sing and play;
That's the only place you can banish care
Banish, and make it stay.
But I cannot write the words that rhyme,
So I'll have to let it go
Til! I get a chance at a later time— ;
But the reasons I can show.
Yes, the reason comes, if the rhymes will not
And I don't even have to try—
I'd like to be in Newllano to-day—
It s my home—that's the reason why.
f
A iittle solo from John Bull on his
anglosaxophone entitled:" Oil for one
and one for oil".
Plant Them Now!
Australian
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A "NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the tame way as egg-plant
Mach resembles the latter—except
that by many colonists it is
mnch preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
6«kure with each packet of seeds.
* The colonist who introduced Aus
tralian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
Erie Labor Press
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
die interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
Organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Etie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50,
Trial Subscription—10 weeks, 25c.
T he Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"Tlie Scarlet Review," 25c, "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQU1T1ST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash.
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
(Do You Want Her?)
"A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts the new girl, as exem
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Centf
! Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
A May Day M'essage from
* } % . »
Resident Llano Colonists to You
By HOWARD L. BUCK:
What is JJ ano Colony? j
To some of you it will' mean one
thing, and to some, another. To some
the term "Llano" will suggest a vis
ion of future wealth and grandeur—-a
modern paradise of ease and comfort ;
to others, it will suggest the opportun
ity for self -improvement and self-devel,
opment ; to still others it will suggest
a beautiful ideal. AH very good.
But the first significance of "Llano"
to me is its human associations—the
"PEOPLE of Llano.
Llano Colony is not, nor ever can
be, an aggregation of property. Brick
buildings and a beautiful landscape can
not make a colony, nor can the lack
of them unmake it. Llano is not an en
vironment, but a people—a group of
devoted and high-minded "samidean
oj," living and working together to
ward a common goal.
Comrades arrive among us who at
once appreciate this—comrades who
have, probably, more than the aver
age of us, the ability to get acquainted
quickly, and an intuitive understanding
of human nature, and the problems of
human adjustments and relationships,
man to man. Like a duck takes to the
water, they take to us—the PEOPLE
—the COLONY—and its aims.
Other comrades arrive among us.
They are just as sincere, just as true
idealists, perhaps; but they judge
Llano, first of all, by exteriAr appear
ances. They see our old houses. They
see our comparative lack of modern
conveniences. One good comrade re
cently visited us. At the end of the
first day he was ready to go. He saw
our undeveloped resources and the pi
oneer conditions under which we are
working. These to him were Llano
Colony." Our real material progress
of recent months—acquirement of
thousands of acres of land, and pay
ment of former debts; and the im
provement of land two miles away from
our townsite— are not visible to the
eyes. He was disheartened and disap
pointed. Then he began to get ac
quainted with the PEOPLE. He learn
ed more of our aims and ileals and of
what we are really doing. He caught
the inspiration. The longer he re
mained, the more he was fascinated
by "Llano"; and when finally busi
ness duties necessitated his return
¦home, he was a member of the LLANO
125-CLUB, and,- leaving, left behind
him the assurance that he would be
one of us in the near future.
In fact, there are many of us who
have been here several years and like
Llano better with every passing month.
I am one of them, having lived in the
Colony almost continuously for five
years.
And the modern city, with all its
modern improvements? Sure. We
want it. We purpose to have it. We
are at last in a position to build it.
We ARE now building it. But when
we get it, THAT will not be "Llano."
Llano" will be the people who live
therein, and who will enjoy these
things the more that they are the pro
duct of the hand and brain of "Llano."
For the only way to really possess à
thing is to have created it.
No, we do not wish to "go back to
Nature." We are on the read "to Na
ture" all right; but the road we travel
is forward. No "backward" stuff for
„„J We shall endeavor to "hold fast
to that which is good," in the old as
well as in the new, and shall, insofar
as possible, adopt every new invention
and discovery which can in any Svay
add to the sum total of human happi
ness and efficient living.
So, friends and comrades, when you
come to visit Llano, seek it not in vine
clad bungalows and fertile fields and
lowing herds of cattle; but search it
FIRST in throbbing human hearts—
souls aglow with life and hope and in
spired with a vision of better things.
Seek it in the bright ideals of loving
men and women and the happy, care
free laughter of little children. There
will you find—"Llano."
* * * *
By A. E. W. JAQUES:
Our attention was first called to the
Llano Colony at a lecture by Frank E.
Wolfe while we were spending our va
cation during the Christmas holidays in
1914, in Pasadena, Cal. Comrade
Harriman was supposed to lecture that
evening, but was taken sick, so Frank
Wolfe lectured in his stead.
The co-operative idea had always
been our ideal and, of course, as soon
as we found a bona fide effort to put
it into practice, we both became boos
ters at once.
Returning to Eureka, Cal., at the end
of our vacation, we kept on boosting
and when we read the prospectus of
the Colony before the Socialist Local
there, it caused a barrage fire of ques
tions, one of the chief ones being, what
help would a Colony of this sort be to
the average "blanket stiff," who had
no money to buy a membership. The
LLANO 125-CLUB answers that ques- (
tion to-day.
¦It was in May, 1915, after a thor
ough study "and considerable corre
spondence that we made our initial pay
ment on an installment membership,
which was completed in April, 1921.
We then disposed of our property in
Oakland and Eureka, bought a c&t and
started for the land of hope on July
2nd. We visited my parents in Chico,
Cal. for about 10 days, then stopped
over in Sacramento to attend the ex
ecutive board meeting of Dist. 102 In
ternational Assn. of Machinists, as I
was a delegate from Dist. 6.
We reached Los A n S e l es °n July 21
and stopped to bid farewell to Mrs.
Jaquès' folks.
While there I worked in a garage
and machine shop and continued our
visit for about seven weeks. On Sept.
12th we Started oh the last lap of our
journey to the promised land, and af
ter a journey of 21 days over desert,
mountain and plain, roads that were
good, bad and indifferent, we arrived
at the Colony on Monday, Oct. 3rd,
in time for dinner.
On this date our real education be
gan. When one begins to co-operate
in earnest, there is no limit to the op
portunities open for him to display his
skill as a worker, talent in any profes
sion, or prowess in athletic or aquatic
sports. Our Colony is a University in
the true sense of the word.
* * * *¦
By ALBERT KAPOTSY: '
I have come to the Llano Co-opera
tive Colony for three reasons. First,
because I believe that labor—both men
tal and physical—is the creator of all
wealth. And wealth socially used
should be socially owned. Therefore,
I wanted to expend my labor power in
a place where socially used wealth is
created for the benefit of all. It is a
fact that, since I have been here I
have never heard one objection or one
dissenting voice to anything being so
cially owned. In fact the Colony is
such an immense undertaking that on
ly a several-times millionaire company
woijld dare to undertake such vast im
provements that the Colony is doing
to-day—indivilually is would be im
possible.
The second reason I am here is, that
I wanted to give my children in their
early years a training from a view
point of the working class. Uncon
sciously they certainly get it. They are
happy and enjoy the Colony life.
Thirdly, I came here to have undis
turbed opportunity—as to economic
conditions—to finish certain studies
I had started and felt need of in my
experience in the labor movement, and
could not make satisfactory headway
because of the unsuited economic con
dition of the capitalist system to the
highest development of the individual
member of the society. During my
stay here I have had absolutely no wor
ry as to rent, groceries, butcher, cloth
ing, washing and mending, shoe repair
ing, light, heat, express, carfare, doctor
bills, amusements, or any other kind
of bills; and a person can certainly
concentrate on any subject he sees fit.
It is 1 entirely up to him or her.
It is part of the spirit of the Colony
in reciprocity of the labor— thçy call
it "service"—not only to care fbr the
economic need of the individual, but
to urge and assist to the extent of the
Colony power everyone to become the
highest type of trained men and wo
men in their respective callings. Al
ways keeping in mind, that in the train
ing of the individual the spirit of social
service should predominate instead of
profit seeking.
The Colony is in its pioneering stage
and has its experimental ups and
downs. In spite of different opinions
as to different questions, it is elevating
to see a bunch of earnest men and wo
men do their level best for a socially
ownee^ institution. It deserves your
moral and financial support.
Since my stay here I was detailed
partly in my own trade, that is of
plumbing and partly in the farming de
partment, in which I have been,most
ly, plowing and hauling with a Fordson
tractor. I have done also some fruit
tree spraying. ïn the plumbing line I
have Said about 1,000 feet of water
piping. I installed hot and cold water
supply in the Kindergarten Cafeteria,
the water being brought from the big
elevated tank at the hotel. We also
placed a large sink there for dishwash
ing. I have also piped for water and
steam five large vats for tanning pur
poses. Lately I have installed a hot
and cold water supply to the milk
house at the dairy using 3 hotwater
jackets connected together and with
a brick fire pot underneath fbr hot wa
ter storage boiler using an old large
heater. I have also rearranged the hot
water supply at the hotel where a large
quantity of hot water is being used al
most every hour of the day. At pre
sent about 200 ft of waste and sewer
Ém
piping is under construction from the
dairy house and milkhouse, taking the
sewage from a sink and the bottle
washing tubs in the milk house and
from a shower bath.
I also have had several smaller re
pair jobs at Leesviile, which help our
income. Wish we had some more, but
you know the old competitive system
is doomed. The future belongs to the
co-operative system. I also wish to
mention that we are in need of all
kinds of material in the plumbing
line, and anything our friends may
send us will be greatly appreciated.
The Plumber.
* * * * y
By MRS. HELENE NORGARD
De?r Bess:—At fhe end of a beau
tiful day, I am sitting here looking out
upon wonderful shades of green foli
age, from the most delicate light greens
to the dark of the magnolias; and as
my thoughts drift to the "outside" I
wish that many less fortunately-situat
ed were here, too. As you know from
reading a few numbers of the papers,
we are preparing as rapidly as possible
for those who wish to come. Judging
from the letters that we get into this
office, the economic pressure will has
ten their arrival. Most people are wor
rying—about their income, their prop
erty, their jobs (or lack of them), their
children, and so on ad infinitum.
Now, Bess, in-' a community of this
kind there are no individual worries;
We are progressing, not retrogressing.
Work is a real joy; for we feel that
all the energy we expend helps at least
in a small way in the demonstration
being made here. Let me tell you,
Bess, if you should ever taste the real
satisfaction of living in a co-operative
colony like ours, you would never want
to go back to that old outworn system.
Neither would Ernest. You are both
co-operators by nature, anyway. No
one need have any fear as to their
children here. The community takes
care of them in such a way that they
develop into natural, self-reliant boys
and girls*, with a feeling of responsi
bility to others and the community
in general. They learn to serve cheer
fully. It becomes second nature to
them. Many a time I have heard the
regret expressed by older colonists that
they did not grow up in a community
like this. However, no matter how old
they are when they enter here, they
grow younger in mind and spirit from
that time on. The social life is IDEAL
and there are any number of classes
A Circulation of
100*000
NOT LESS, FOR
73he
Llano Colonist
Every progressive sjiould be a reader of THE LLANO
COLONIST and it is up to you and all of us to see that it
reaches them. *
Let's start right NOW and make it a point to see that
every person whom we think would be interested in Llano
or in co-operation in general, becomes a subscriber to The
Llano Colonist, YOUR weekly paper. Many are order
BUNDLES weekly for distribution among their friends.
Celebrate May Day by Getting
ONE More New Reader
Send in that New Reader and Order a Bundle for
distribution and DO IT NOW
and meetings to fit all .natures and
wants.
What about the status of women,
you say? The economic independence
she enjoys under complete co -opera
tion will bring about her emancipation.
She will render service to the commun
ity and will be relieved from drudgery
in the home, and, given an opportun
ity of development along the lines of
¦her preference, which fact will become
more and more clear to women as we
emerge from this pioneering stage (The
electric light plant ni now in process of
materialization). Personally, I feel
that there is much more satisfaction in
being here on the ground and helping
build up the community, than it would
be to come in when it is further along
in development..
Why don't -one or more of you folks
up there subscribe for our live paper
with a live community behind it?
Hoping to hear from you soon, and
with kindest regards to your own good
self and Joan and all, I remain,
Your friend
(Mrs.) Helene Norgard
\ * ¥ * * .
By WILLIAM ENGLAND:
Well Friend Cricklewood, you have
asked me so often to give you some
information about Llano Colony that
your persistence and interest merit a
response. So be all attention. The
following was overheard the other day
by a radio phone operator and is en
dorsed as correctly presenting the mat
ters touched upon:
! "What ship is that?"
I "Brig 'Last Resource' of Mobile,
bound for Bordeaux—and you?" "Col
ony Freighter 'Co-operator,' of New
Orleans—want anything?" "Yes, give
us some information about the Co-oper
ative Colony you plough the seas for."
"Well, the rolling deep is a strange
place for you to come aboard my shi#
with such an inquiry! btat as the ship
represents the Colony, Neptune as
senting, will give you some particulars.
Don't forget, old salt, that Colony life
is a new and strange experience for
all unprepared and inexperienced
would-be colonists. To be suddenly
called upon to practice considerable
self-denial, economy and other virtues,
combined with much activity, change
of scene and work, is some revelation.
For example, 'a versatile comrade, full
of pep and vitality, may be assisting
at the fertilizer plant; yet but an hour
previous he may have been in the bake
shop sniffing cinnamon rolls and
punching dough for the daily bread,
and, before that, chopping some wood,
a^d" possibly earlier ill the day helping
to shingle a roof, finally, when finish
ing the day's work, reaching the hotel
with many other out-of-breaths for
supper. And so it goes. Tis called
"Co-operation," and under present ex
istiiig conditions and of dire necessity,,
can spread but à few workers over
much ground and effort; rtevertheless»
the results are comparable to the greea
leafy covering of the trees ashore*
which but a little more than'six weeks
ago were bare and brown. Watching^,
them, one could not see the green,
leaves continually emerging, yet, lo!
they kre in full canopy ! So with Col
ony development; one year ago „the
following did not exist: Fertilizer plant
plumbers' shop, electrical shop, photo
shop, poultry ranch, new brick kiln»,
laundry drying room, shoiver bath
house, raw food cafeteria, new- two
room cottages, Roof Garden, Large E—
lectric power plant (purchased) four -
acres of Kudzu vines, additional new
room cottages. Roof garden, large
electric power plant (purchased), four
acres of kudzu vines, additional new
equipment, such as large engine anc£
boiler, large truck and tractors, etc.,
excellent school, Colony chorus, juven
ile orchestra, and classes for music*
singing, agriculture, etc. Then, there
are some 121 hogs of all sizes, 69 dairy
cows and calves, 14 miles of fence, 65*
gates, with 750 acres under fence, and,
last but not least, the new state road.
Quite a surprising number of installa
tions and expansions in such a short
period; therefore a reflective mind cait
well realize where things are likely to»
be three years hence. Having given
you some very vital information, prov
es the Colony is npt anything vision
ary or moribund, and is ccontinually
expanding toward final emergence into
full sunshine and prosperity. And re^
member, its spiritual counterpart ex
ists. I May its stewardship be unerring
ly guided with wisdom and understand
ing. Bon voyage Brig "Last Resource'
and adieu. Thank you "Co-operator"
and Godspeed. „
¥ * *
By FRED MONTROSE:*
Years ago, when I was "on the out
side," how I would welcome the day
when the Colonist arrived. That was
the day when the whistle, denoting that
the day's work was done sounded bet
ter than all the other working days of
the week, and five o'clock could never
come too soon for me.
As soon as I arrived home I found
that my better half had devoured-the
entire contents of the Colonist, and
was eager to tell me all that had trans
pired during the week in that far-away
cöuntry where a brave band of com
rades were striving to cleave a path
from capitalism to co-operation; where
self-denial was a common event among
them; and where sacrifice was made
upon the altar of desire in order that
the class to which they belbnged could
create from mother earth work and
plenty for all.
(Continued on page 3)
»USglAN DELEGATION *
GAINS DIPLOMATIC VICTORY
(By The Federated Preis)
Genoa (by cable). — Russian coun
ter claims against the allies to balance
the prewar czarist state debts are the
snag holding up the European econom
ic conference.
Lloyd George and the French want
"Russia to promise first that it will re
cognize the prewar debt regardless of
the war claims that may or may not
T>e allowed later.
The Russian delegation insists that
the war claims and the prewar debt
must be considered t together, fearing
that prior recognition by Russia of the
prewar debt may give the allies a
chance to repudiate the claims arising
out of the assistance they gave td Rus
sian counter-revolutionists, which Rus
sia has estimated at 25 billion gold ru
bles ($12,500,000,000). V 1
George Ghicherin and his fellow Rus
sian delegates have detailed proposals
to cover each point raised in the Lon
don memorandum of the allies, which
-contemplated turning Russia into
spheres of influence for the advanced
industrial powers.
Talk is beginning to spread of the
failure of the Genoa conference and of
the «calling of another conference in the
fall at which the subjects now forbid
den by France will be discussed.
The common sense of the Russian
position that disarmament is the first
¦step towarad economic stability is re
cognized by everyone but the French.
The German contention that repara
tions are an integral part of any finan
cial proposals is also recognized. It is
evident that the French taboo on dis
armament and reparations had ham
strung the conference in advance.
Meanwhile French newspapers con
cede that the Russians have carried off
the diplomatic victory.
SHALL IT BE A SOVIET GERMANY?
i (By The Federated Pre»»)
New York. — "Germany may be
forced into a coalition with Soviet Rus
sia," is a statement attributed to Hugo
"Stinnes, German financier, by Phelan
13eale, a New York lawyer, just return
ed from a month in Berlin. Beale, who
talked with Stinnes and with Dr. Gus
tav Stesemann, leader of the People's
party in the reichstag, declared that
if the present economic situation con
tinues; if prices continue to increase
and the mark to decrease, "Germany
¦will go the way of Russia."
START YOUR OWN BANKS
Seattle. — Fifty million American
¦workers systematically saving $2 a
month each, could control the liquid
finances of the nation in five years.
This was the message delivered here
to the Central Labor council by 'Waltet
"M. McCaleb, manager Cleveland bank
•of the Brotherhood of Locomotive En
gineers, which has assets oftnore than
$14,000,000.
MOTHERS TO THE RESCUE
(By The Federated Pres»)
Seattle. — Women who opposed the
introduction of military training in the
"high schools here recently were told
that they could be executed in wartime
for such actions. Angry militarists bel
lowed at the school board meeting for
arms training, but the less dramatic
Tjut no less firm attitude of the women
and mothers of high school lads, pre
sented passage of a resolution which
'would have placed uniforms on all male
school students.
The Labor News
The "Labor News" published in Al
toona. Pa., is the largest LABOR PA
PER published in the state» and gives
you the labor news from home.
LABOR NEWS PUB. C.
ALTOONA, PA. •
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLAHR, Nature Cure
Author, says:
"Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
land question from the Henry George
viewpoint, I felt that there was some
thing wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the little things over
-which we stumble every day that we
don't see. You are the first one who
has harmonized the land problem and
the wage question;—Henry George and
Marx."
' A concise, clothbound volume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
rency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, La.
UNITED LABOR WILL
WIN THE WORLD
(By The Federated Pres«)
Masontown, Pa. — A series of mon
ster mass meetings in the Connellsville
coke region has swept aside for the
time being the opposition of local pol
iticians and state constabulary.
Seven thousand miner? billed Gallitin
Gardens in Uniontown in the first labor
demonstration in that city since Henry
C. Frick smashed unionism in the fe
rocious days of the early 90's. It was
an overwhelming mass movement that
found Jts climax when Organizer Wil
liam Feeney called on all who wished
to join the United Mine Workers to
come forward and the crowd that had
been standing in the amphitheater
surged forward with the force of the
tide.
"Local authorities are afraid to in
terfere with this determined bunch,"
said a union official explaining the sit
uation, and as I looked over that army
of powerful men with the light of hope
shining in their eyes I could well be
lieve it.
A CHILDREN'S CRUSADE
(B, -n,. Federated P_.,
St. Louis. —^ Children, wives and,'
mothers of political prisoners who are
still cpnfined in federal penitentiaries,
were "to start from St. Louis Monday
on a latter day children's crusade, not
to free the holy city from the infidel
Turks, but to urge the United States
gojprnment at Washington to release
the 113 men still in prison for their
political opinions during wartime.
There were 21 in thç party. Other
groups will be picked up at Chicago,
Detroit, New York and Philadelphia,
and numerous other cities will be vis
ited on the way.
Arriving at Washington April 29, the
child crusaders will attempt to see Pres
ident Harding to ask him for a general
amnesty for wartime political oppend
ers.
EUROPEAN LABOR DE
NOUNCES FRENCH ATTITUDE
•[By The Federated Press)
Genoa (by cable). ¦— The unmask
ing of French militarism by the Russian
delegation at th'e European economic
conference has made a profound im
pression on public opinion.
The refusal of France to discuss dis
armament, after Russia's invitation, has
enhanced the prestige of Chicherin, the
head of the Russian delegation, who
maneuvered the soviet tactical victory.
All European labor sections are de
nouncing the French attitude.
Marcel Cachin, editor, L'Humanité,
the largest French daily, declared:
"Louis Barthou, who is heading the de
legation of Frafice at Genoa, is the bru
tal embodiment of French militarism.
While capitalist statesmen in their
speeches confess inability to re
construct Europe and wail tragically
at the state of the world, the Russiana
propose disarmament as the first great
step to relieve the situation, even of
fering to collaborate with the capital
istic states in the necessary reconstruc
tion."
WORKERS UNITE
(By The Federated Press)
Seattle. — State Federation of Là*
bor, Grange, Non-Partisan League,
Railwaymen's Political club and the
Good Government league in this sta^e
have entered a mutual compact to put
across progressive initiative measures
in ,the coming state election. À liberal
workmet's compensation act, an in
jnuction by trial law, repeal of the
poll tax, more self-government for mu
nicipalities and non-partisan state el
ections are the measures being further
ed by the alliance.
SOCIALIZATION PLANS
ABANDONED IN GERMANY
(By The Federated Pre»)
Berlin. — In spite of protests of all
working class parties, the socialization
commission, created soon after the Ger
man revolution, has been abolished by
the reichstag. This commission had
been created with lavish promises that
at least a beginning would be made
with the socialization of basic indus
tries, especially coal. The official abol
ition of the commission recognizes
what has long bçen a fact—the com
plete abandonment by the government
of socialization plans,
LABOR SOLIDARITY AND
PEACEFUL PROGRESSION
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Washington. — Mexico has seen the
last of coups d'etat, such as the over
throw of Madero by Victoriano Huerta
and such as the fatal attempt by Gen.
Carranza to destroy the free exercise
of the right of suffrage, says Canuto
A. Vargas, secretary, Pan-American
Federation of Labor, in the current
American Federationisî. He attributes
the new security of democratic power
in Mexico to the labor movement.
MAY DAY MESSAGES
(Continued from page 2)
And as I picked up the Colonist, how
eagerly would I scan its pages for the
evidence that all was well in that place
I yearned to some day call my home,
that t o canker of unrest or dissatisfac
tion had come among that brave band
of pioneers who had cast their lot and
their all on the altar of true comrade
ship, the world and all that the world
offered them at the expense of their
brothers, to come here to prepare a
place whqje work would be in plenty,
and where* work would be a pleasure
for all who wished to come. And as I
read on, I would dream of the immense
possibilities that are offered to the work
ing class of America in the cutover land
of Louisiana, and my heart woyld go
out in sympathy with those comrades
who had segregated themselves from
the rest of the world to prepare a place
for me and mine; . With such thoughts
as this flitting through my mind, I won
dered how many thousands of the read
ers of the Colonist held out the same
hope as my family did,, until I found
that every reader, and thousands who
were not, held the same jnental attitude
to the Colony. Then I knew that—
OF THE WORLD ARE
' « « « *
By J. HOMER CLARK:
Many years ago I became thorough
ly convinced that the profit system of
business was- wrong in principle. A
profit is that which one receives in a
business transaction for which be does
not give an equivalent in goods or ser
vice. Since everything of commercial
value must be produced by human la
bor, if I receive more than I produce,
someone else must necessarily receive
less than he produces. Is the accum
mulation of wealth, then, a thing of
which to be proud? Should I not ra
ther be ashamed to consume that for
which I have not returned an equiva
lent? and be proud when I can feel
that I have rendered my share and
more of service to the world? If eve
ryone in the world had these ideals,
competition would not be wrong mor
ally; but ever then it would not be an
economical methods It is only when
each works for the best interests of all
under an efficient organization, that
best results will be obtained.
How, then, can we change over from
a competitive, profit system to a co-op
erative, altruistic system? When I
first heard of the Llano Colony, it ap
pealed to me as being the best solution
of the problem I had ever heard of.
And the more I read about it the more
I felt that I ought to join and help to
make a success of the undertaking
But, being under the necessity of earn
ing my daily bread, and also of rais
ing the amount of the entrance fee, I
could only read and talk about it, till
finally I broke away and made a visit
to the Colony.
I must say that my first impressions
were disappointing. At the end of the
first day I was about ready to go home
and forget it. I was judging by the
surface appearances. Things looked
so primitive. And yet, one of the first
things I noticed was the friendly, fra
ternal spirit manifest among the colon
ists, which made even me, a stranger,
feel at home. And then I saw the chil
dren. They always interest me. The
hope of the future lies with the chil
dren. I noticed how healthy and fine
they looked. I couldn't help but !e
mark, "What a fine-looking lot of girls
there are here!" And after spending
the week-end hire, I had to add, "I
think I never saw a more well-behav
ed group of children."
While I missed some of the delicacies
of the table I am used to, I found the
cafeteria lunches served to the chil
dren—and such others as care to eat
there—quite satisfactory. I was de
lighted to hear the splendid music giv
en by the h8-çiece orchestra, under the
leadership of the school principal. I
think you haye a valuable asset in the
persons of Prof, and Mrs. Martin.
As I talked with your devoted and
able Manager Pickett and others, and
turned matters over in my own mind,
it became more and more apparent that
you are making a sacrifice of present
comforts while laying a solid founda
tion for the future. You are working
out an ideal—and ideals are the big
things that count. I can picture in my
mind a beautiful group of well-con
constructed brick huildings surrounding
refreshingly green little park on a
rise of ground sloping up from the sta
tion of the K. C. S. railway, with homes
having modern conveniences, inhabit
ed by a people happy because they are
industrious, honest, intelligent, altruis
tic.
The longer I stay here the better I
like it. I think I had better go home
before I take root.
I just want to add a word of cheer
to the devoted women who are doing
the drudgery and getting along with
out the conveniences they have been
used to. Let us hope that they may
soon enjoy the comforts that are com
ing, I believe, and the satisfaction of
having done their duty when things
looked the most discouraging.
My well-wishes are with the Colony
till such time as I can find it possible
to job with you.
ft « V« t<> <
I \ i
: m
Once
a
i « • V
Club
«¦H
Every day we receive letters from friends of the Colony who express a
desire to help us in some Way, but who are unable to take out a membership
or join the 125-CLUB; and, until now, there has been no way for them to do
so. Now comes a comrade with a suggestion for a systematic plan by which
our many supporters of small means may assist in the up-building of the Colony.
We are now compelled to spend much of our time and energy in produc
ing articles for sale ir. the local markets in order to meet current ^aüpenses.
There would be no objection to we we» fesiUS&g only for ourselves;
in fact, we should then extend such business to the limit. But we are not
building for ourselves alone; our plans are far greater than that—we are build
ing for the thousands who are to come—we are building for YOU, Comrades.
And eVery hour we spend in manufacturing products for sale outside of the
Colony retards just that much the progress of the Colony as a whole. Every
minute of our time; every ounce of our energy, should.be put forth in the
actual work of building and clearing and preparing for you, who are to come
later. The more we are able to do this, the sooner you will be able to join us.
There are also many of, our friends who, for various reasons, will not
make Llano their permanent home, but who, nevertheless, wish to see it grow
and be a successful demonstration of the theories they have always believed
in. Now it is possible for them to assist the movement in a practical way
Llano
Dollar-Up
1 m
Acting on the suggestion of this coiprade, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
has been formed, and we now invite our thousands of well-wishers through
out the country to take advantage of the opportunity thus offered them.
The LLANO DQLLAR-UP CLUB is composed of comrades who pledge
themselves to give a dollar or more a month, the money to be used to meet
curPent expenses. These expenses are comparatively small, the most of our
food and necessaries we produce for ourselves; but there are some things
that we must buy and pay cash for.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB will do this for US and allow US to
keep on steadily building for YOU.
We are expecting you, comrades, to help us prove to the world that we
are right. You may depend on us to do our very utmost—may we depend
upon you?
If You Can't Help a Lot,
HELP A LITTLE!
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
Newllano, via Leesville, La.
• .
Colonist
•#"
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEESVILLE. LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
— —.— — — _ —_
Entered as second-class matter, May 14, 1921, at the postoffice at
Leesviile, La., under act of March 3, 1879,
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS: Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tion« regarding the publications to The Llano Publications, Leesville, La.
Tks will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name as it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER— Editor.
With this number we begin the se-,
, ipd volume of the Llano Colonist.
This paper was not started as a money
making proposition, nor to pander to
any personal ambition. The publish
ers have a message to deliver, good
news to proclaim, which they consid
er of utmost importance to all man
kind. It is the message of peaceful,
voluntary and constructive co-opera
tion on the basic principle of reciproc
ity—the only way out of the bedlam
of the present order. Violence in all
the world's history has always called
forth retaliation, and only to the exten!
that violence has been discarded and
an ' anti-social attitude, ideas and con
duct have been displaced by the atti
tude, ideas and conduct of honesty,
courtesy and mutual helpfulness has an
improvement in human affairs been re
alized. We believe with the prophet
Isaiah: "With righteousness [intelli
gent understanding] shall he judge the
poor, and reprove [the predatory rich]
with equity [reciprocity] for the meek
of the earth; and he shall smite the
earth [unjust human institutions] with
the SWORD OF HIS MOUTH, and
with the breath of his lips shall he
slay the wicked [wrong doers]."
The exposure of wrong attitude,
wrong ideas and all wrong-doing is
the spiritual sword that the Nazarene
introduced in human affairs, and it is
a spiritual warfare that he inaugurat
ed, and with all the emphasis he could
express he specifically repudiated phys
ical warfare and all the material instru
ments of violence, power or authority.
Demonstrated human knowledge
amply adequate to prove that common
ordinary courtesy, mutual helpfulness
and reasonable work are amply ade
quate to supply all the necessaries and
comforts of life.
There is nothing mysterious or mir
aculous or superhuman about it, and
no necessity to wait for the inaugur
ation of fraternal co-operation upon
* the advent of some savior, avatar or
some super-human world teacher; good
common horse sense is quite 1 equal to
the task.
Co-operation on the basis of reci
procity can be practiced now; we are
doing it at Llano Colony, and if you
are from Missouri, we can show you by
your coming down here. We are tell
ing the world abroad every week thru
the pages of the Colonist just how we
are doing it and what we are doing.
Now, if you want to learn, and if you
b elieve in fair play„ try to get your
friends to subscribe for this paper. We
have the knowledge, are making the
demonstration and are trying to attract,
to predispose and to win others to the
study, consideration and acceptance of
the truth.
The editor has been a truthseeker all
his life. It is fifty-two years ago that
he first entered a newspaper office and
learned to his sorrow that truth was not
exactly the objective of the generality
of newspapers. He stayed only a few
years with the mechanical department
of newspaper making, because he con
sidered it a desecration to prostitute
his powers in the service of untruth.
For the last thirty-two years he has
been engaged almost uninterruptedly in
newspaper work with the exception of
a brief involuntary vacation that he en
joyed because of his opposition to war.
To him the position of an editor is one
of highest responsibility and requiring
integrity and fidelity to the utmost.
We believe with George Latimer as he
expressed it in "Reality":
"Editors must exert themsefves-in the
spiritualization of the moral espect of
human life. They must be the heralds
of the oneness of the world and the
teachers of true brotherhood. They
must incite and encourage the people
in the exercise of love, tolerance, chas
tity and good fellowship and teach
them to shun hatred and animosity.
They must speak the words of truth,
live in the realms of truth, dream the
dreams of truth, be clothed with the
lobes of truth, be married unto the
truth, be anxious to learn the truth, see
everything with the eyes of truth, hold
fast to the truth, be mirrors of truth,
spread he majesty of the kind of
truth, propound the immortality of
truth— for truth is the essence of life,
truth is the image of the eternal, truth
is the correct comprehension of all
things, truth (knowledge) is the savior
of mankind."
Let us be liberated from all error
Let us obtain and practice the truth
that is Poetical and of immediate con
cern here and NOW.
Co-operation is not a talkfest; it is
a working bee. It does not stand for
talking about doing things but actually
DOING things. Rub that into your
hide, young fellow, old boy, or who
ever you may be; please do. You
want results—sure pop; we all want
results. But you'll never get 'em un
less you go to work and actually pro
duce them by the work of your hands
directed and guided 'by your intelli
gence. Just write this down, so you
won't'forget it.
Chicago's municipal electric light and
power plant sells electricity at one cent
per kilowatt, the lowest rate in Amer
ica. A subject well worth considering
by the inhabitants of other American
cities.
In the April number of his magazine
Napoleon Hill advises his readers that,
in their planning and activities, they
should always make use of" the accumu
lated facts and tested and successful
processes bearing on the objèct aimed
at or of the immediate work in hand.
Search in the libraries and laborator
ies and inform yourself of everything
that others have discovered. This is
one of the first and most essential steps
to be taken by all who want to use or
ganized effort." It is the only unfail
ing and sure way of achievement.
AGRICULTURAL MEETING ^
IS WELL ATTENDED
Comrale Lindsey made an interest
ing report of farmipg operations at the
agricultural meeting on Friday evening,
April 21. Because of the wet season
planting of cane in the bottom land
has been delayed, but is now well un
der way. Farming and gardening op
erations are now carried on in a more
efficient way and on a larger scale
than ever before and the outlook for
production is better than at any pre
vious time in the histOrry of the Colony.
Tractors and farming machinery in
instances are used in two eight-hour
shifts, thus practically doubling the
farm equipment in such cases.
The people here realize that inten
sive farming on a lesser acreage will
j gj ve greater results for the labor ex
pended than by trying to cover too
much ground. Farming is understood'
to be a manufacturing proposition like
any other human industry and not a
mining out of the fertility of the soil,
as has only too generally been prac
ticed hitherto in the United States..i
Food production is a matter ojf bio
chemistry. The soil is the retort, that
must be put and kept in proper condi
tion ; and then the food needed for the
plant must be added, and when healthy
seed is planted at the proper time and
given the proper attention, with a fa-.
vorable season, a proportionate produc
tion will be gained according to the la
bor expended. Comrade , Sutton de
scribed ui a very interesting manner
how the life in the plant functions.
Dr. Ferree, who has taken charge of
the orchard made a very encouraging
report. The orchard is very young
but all circumstances considered, is do
Comrade Pickett reported the addi
tion of milkgoats and sheep to the Col
ony's stock in the near future. He al
so requested the planting crew to be
careful in the handling of the seed
cane. •
Comrade George D. Coleman, as al
ways, gave some valuable pointers for
the carrying on of the farming activi
ties.
Mrs. Martin reported that Miss Min
erva Pearl LeFevre, Parish farm de
monstrator, will after this lecture ev
ery first Friday in the month on agri
cultural and domestic topics and assist
us to obtain lecturers for the Colony
from La. State University on topics of
interest and value ip the Colony's ac
tivities.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
HERE THEY COME
TEN MORE
Ten more ^embers of Llano's
lar-Up CLUB" thi„ week. Now
are coming fast.
Last week we recorded seven, this
week ten; and as time goes, more and
more will join. You see these com
rades are anxious to see their ideal
realized, and they are able to donate
a small sum each month for this pur
pose.
Llano is making tremendous head
way now, and the "Dollar-Up" Club
is making sure that it will not be fin
ances that will hold the Colony down
to the steady grind of making a living
and no more. We want to BUILD,
and we cannot build and grow with
out spending money. If we have to
stop work on our building and make
something to sell in order to get
money, we are delaying the game.
This Week ten are ready to add their
names to the ever-growing list. They
are S. Paul, Stephen Fehn, Mrs. Don
Belcher, Floyd C. LaRue, R. L. Dor
man, V. C. Clbwe, Miss E. M. Van
Schoick, Matt Sunnen, Morris W. Rap
aport. They are located in all four
corners of the United States, and some
in between.
Says Floyd C. La Rue in his letter:
"Another line. There IS something
I can do here and now. So here is my
Dollar for the "Dollar-Up" Club. Yours
is the only truly revolutionary move'
ment in this country that I know any
thing about, and you deserve to win."
THE "DOLLAR-UP-CLUB"
Here are the DOLLAR-UP
CLUB members who have chip
ped in thus' far with their April
donations :
Frank Gayer $1.00
Mrs. Rose B. Blair $1.00
L. L. Rhodes $1.00
A. C. McKinley $1.00
W. E. Patterson $1.00
Augustus Rob'nson $1.00
Mrs. L. Dillmr.n $1.00,
William Andraska $1.00
Mrs. Blanche W. Briggs $5.00
Henry Mueller $1.00
D. Henderson Howell 1.00
R. K. Williams 1.00
Napoleon Hill 1.00
F. W. Miles --\ 1.00
John Gillan $1.00
C. W- Corbin (March and
April)
Reo Johnson
C. C. West
F. J. West
Victor Nelson
G. Stuveling
S. Pauli
Stephen Fehn
Mrs. Don Belcher
Floyd C. La Rue
R. L. Dorman
V. C. Clowe
Charles Hook
E. M. Van Schoick
Morris W. Rapaport
Matt Sunnen
$2.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
?
?
Matt Sunnen sent in $15.00 for the
Dollar-UP" but has not yet told us
how to apportion the amounï; Chas.
Hook and R. L. Dorman gav'e us $3.00
each for three months; V. C. Clowe do
nated $5.00 for as many months; E.
M. Van Schoick sent $4.00 for four
months ; and Morris W. Rapaport sent
$5.00.
See the announcement on page three
which tells - all about this club.
A
TWO MORE FOR. THE
LLANO 125-CLUB
Slowly but surely the LLANO 125
CLUB is growing. Only 125 can join
this "club. Its purpose is to provide
$125,000 which it is estimated will be
a sufficient sum to buy the balance of
the land which the Colony wants to
secure for all future uses, and to pro
vide funds for the construction of thei
first unit of Llano's new hotel system.
Already there have been several who
have pledged themselves to join the
Colony this year and thus create a
fund which wîll grow until 125 have
joined, making a total of $125,000.
This week Henry Mueller and A. W.
Deems have joined the LLANO 125
CLUB. Here is the full list to date
THE "125-CLUB"
Tom L. Potts
A. B. Dawley
W. G. Dunegan
Harry C. Hall
D. W. Van Schoick
John Winters
J. B. Mars
Robert Wurfer
Homer Clark.
Bert Busic
John Stave
Earl A. Young
J. R. Brown s
Geo. A. Sanders
F. D. Conway.
A. W. Deems
Henry Mueller
You will find an announcement on
page eight about this lively club.
The Junior Colonist
TRUMAN BENTHAL L, Editor.
Our staff this weék is: Editor, Tru
man Bcnthall ; Repdrters, Maxine Gad
dis, Victor Gaddis and Vinita Tlmr
n. ,
MYSELF
I have to live with myself, and so
I want to be fit for myself to know.
I want to be able, as days go by.
Always to look myself straight in the
eye, " «•
I don't want to stand, withjhe setting
sun
And hate myself for the things I've
done.
I don't want to keep on a closet shelf
A lot of secrets about myself,
the'And fool myself, as I com? and go,
jlnto thinking that nobody else will
know
i The kind of a man I r'eally am ;
I don't want to dress up myself in
I sham.
r . . ... , ,
Want ° , g ° out w ' th head erect -
l" to . de ^r ye a'l mens respect;
, But here ™ th< * struggie for fame and
T I*.' ...
I M '° ^ ^ ,
j 1 WO " 1 Want t0 look at m y self and
TL T
That ? ve bluster and bluff and empty
show.
I can never hide myself from me;
I^see what others may not see;
I know what others may never know;
I can never fool myself, and so,
Whatever happens, I want to be
Self-respecting and conscience-free.
^
On our way to the Ford ranch last
Saturday, we noticed that the Wallis
tractor, which is a tractor having two
back wheels anl one front wheel, had
the front wheel broken entirely off.
We thought to ourselves that there was
something for the trash heap. We
knew that Mr. Coleman could not use
it in the fertilizer plant. But to our
surprise the tractor camé rolling along
in front of the school to-day on four
wheels.—Truman Benthall.
«
Last Saturday, the children went to
the Ford ranch and picked the roots
and knots off the plowed ground for
the men. Later they went to the pool
and swam and then had dinner. When
Mr. Pickett gave a good talk' and ask
ed how many had kept their resolution
of eating only Colony-grown food, it
, . .
c .. os lles ! n what l " e colonists have
LLANO LITERATURE
FOR DISTRIBUTION
The co-operative commonwealth will
not be brought about by any miracle,
nor by any persons or small group of
persons. It will come slowly anH in
time with the number of folk who want
it to come. See, then, how important
it is to drop the word of co-operation
where it will grow and become a liv
ing thing? ,
Llano has prepared several leaflets
on integral co-operation and offers
them for free distribution for just this
purpose. There are four Llano leaf
lets now off the press, which can be
had for the asking. Drop one in your
Barber shop, on' the train, anywhere
you think people will read them. Noth
ing revolutionary about them, just
pilain facts as to how the co-operative
commonwealth shall come.
A new folder has just been issued
from the Llano Press, advocating the
co-operative colony- idea, especially
with reference to the opportunities that
Llano now has. This is more for col
ony advertising; but the Llano Leaf
lets are of a general nature. Llanoites
want folks to commence co-operative
colonies alF over the earth, because they
believe that the solution to jhe world's
discovered in the last three years.
Every reader is obligated to the cause
of humanity and should spread the
knowledge of successful colony co-oper
ation.
TWO AND FOUR
THOUSAND ACRES
In the write-up of The Dollar-Up
Club in last week's issue of The Llano
Colonist, an error was made in the
amount of acres to be purchased.
It said that last year We purchased
one thousand acres and that this year
we were to buy another two thousand.
Both of these figures should have
been doubled, making it read that we
bought two thousand acres last year
and will buy another four thousand
acres this year.
There are still thousands of acres
which should be obtained at this time;
for the co-operative movement will
need it in a few years. There seems
only one way out of the chaos of com
petition and that is for the workers to
get down to the land and produce their
own living, thus eliminating the chanc
es of paying for the keep of the pro
fiteering and interest-shark.
Can you help to crçate this condition
by pledging your membership to the
Llano Colony this year?
was real encouraging to see that so
many had. Almost the entire group
kept their resolution, and I am sure
that they will be the better for eating
only our food.
Monday night while the children
were having their mental science class,
Grandmother West came in, and it cer
tainly was a surprise to us. She came
on a visit once before, and we hope
she has come to stay this time.
—Vinita Thurman.
¥ ¥ « *
CHILDREN'S DIARY
-
This week Dora Cryer, Mabel Syno
ground, Willie B. Green, Ruby Smock,
Laura Merrill, Bennett Babb, Max Bea
vers, Truman Benthall, Beulah Miller,
Mildred Seelye, Beulah Gaddis and
Vinita Thurman all helped Mrs. Mar
tin, Mrs. Green and Rose Belohradsky
at the Cafeteria. Mabel Syrttfground,
Laura Merrill, Beulah Miller, anl Em
ma Kapotsy did the hotel work. Nel
lie Kemp helped at the Kindergarten.
Albert Kapotsy, Clarence Shutt, Max
ine and Victor Gaddis worked at the
printshop. Clarence Shutt and Victor
Gaddis worked also *in the electrical
department. Margaret Seelye gave mu
sic lessons. Roza Matz and Louise
Belohradsky helped in the office.'* We
have been shelling our 'ov»n peanuts
for our Cafeteria and the , following
[are those who worked at them: Edna
Neal, Rachel and Alice Jaques, SojJiy
Marchick, Katherine Cantrell, Margar
et Kapotsy, Laura Synoground, Dora
Cryer. And Maxine Gaddis, Harold
Kemp, J. T. Green, and Clifford West
worked at the Dairy. We are going
to have a fine garden, because we
school children are helping a lot now.
Freddie Tackett, Roscoe and Fred
Busick, Elroy Norgard, Clifford Syno
ground, J. T. Green, Earle Jones,
Brooks Merrel, Harold Kemp, Charles
and Robert Lee. Kenneth Thurman,
Fred Smock, Dawson Cryer, Bennett
Babb, Max Beavers, Truman Benthall,
Albert and Emma Kapotsy, Rosa Matz,
John Dougherty,"Nellie Kemp aiyl Mar
garet Seelye worked in the garden.
Ruby Synoground, Ruby Smock, Laura
Merrel and Nellie Kemp helped Mrs.
Shutt wrap bread and candy.
* * * *
have learned,
Friday night band practice was held
instead of Algebra; as the band must
be ready for May Day, to play for
our dances.
This week we are getting ready for
May Day by making things for. exhib
itions, such as drawings and fancy
work and something to show what we
Charles Miller returned to school af
ter a week's absence" w^th the poison
ivy.
By JOHN CLARKE DOUGHERTY:
May Day will soon be here, and all
we school children were asked to put
a letter in the paper. And I am go
ing to tell you the place 1 like to work
best. I like to work best of all in
the machine shop; I can clean cylin
EAGLE "MIKADO
Pencil No, 174
For Sale at your Dealer Made ; Q fiye grade8
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Let Us Do Your
Job
Quick Service
• Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesville, La.
der hea'ds -and take off the carburetor
I can put the wires on sparkpiugs and
clean them. I have lived in the Colony
now for nearly four years and like it
very much. \ The first of May will be
the Colony's eighth anniversary. We
are going to have all kinds of sports
here on that day. We will have bas«*
ba| and folk dances and athletics. Wer
are going to have a dance in the roof
garden. And are also going to have;
music. I am doing the watering of the
chickens and like to do it. The Colony
has lots of little chickens.
With infinity to fly in, a London and
a Paris airplane met head on and sev
eral were killed. The remarkable thing:
is how they did it! -
Classified Section
k)R EXCHANGE—926 shares of
Llano stock to exchange for property
—J. C. Nale, Box 32, Wasco, Calif.
YOUR GUIDING STAR.—If yout
wish to make the most of each passing:
day, buy a copy of "Planetary Daily
Guide"—price $ 1.00 postpaid.— Emily
M. Richardson, 803 Santa Paula St.„
Santa Paula, Calif. 52t6p>
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles fo town; 1 mile t»
school. About 40 acres wood;
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grass;
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00),
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance i»
Cash. Will take Llano stock up to»
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S_
care Llano Cqlonist 147
WILL TRADE FÖR COLONY
STOCK—40 acres of bottom land,
mostly under cultivation,, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail>
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.—H. A
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
12 acres cleared and under cultivation.
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
terraced. Price, $1100. Main road
A. E, WELDON, Rte 1, Box 63, Lees
ville, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber on bal
ance; good house; two tenant houses.
$10,500 for all. — See G. T, Pickett,
Lano Colony. 35;
FOR SALE—-102 acres; 32 acres
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 barns.
Price, $5,000. Close to Colony hoteL
See George T. Pickett. 39>
FOR SALE—200 acres near Picker
ing; 30 acres in cultivation; good tim
ber on the balance; hummock and
black land; good six rooita house with
two brick fireplaces; a bargain at
$4500.—See Pickett Llano
FARMERS QUIT CROP HARVESTS
Low Prices, except On Cabbages,
Bring "Strike"
HazlsKum, Miss., April 21. — The
vegetable market here has been slov#y
receding and prices have been disap
pointing to farmers, who have quit
harvesting. They say it wouldn't pay
there. Hazlehurst sent away seven
cars yesterday, loaded with cabbage,
carrots, beets and English péas. Calv
bages, on the increase, going up 25
cents a crate yesterday, is the only
vegetable to bring farmers a profit this*
week. Copiah county has shipped
out forty cars of vegetable, netting
the farmers about $30,000.
LEESVILLE DEFEATS LLANO:
TO PLAY AGAIN MONDAY
The Llano* baseball club, which has
enjoyed an Uninterrupted series of vic
tories, met with their first defeat of
the season in a very disastrous mannjr
last Sunday. A picked team from Lees
ville walloped them to the rare old tune
of 22 to 5, and without mach trouble,
either. Besides being handicapped by
the loss of two of their best men, the
Colony boys had an off day, none of
them playing up to form. The-losers
proved themselves good sports, though,
and took their defeat in good nature,
inviting the winners back for a return
match on May Day. Both teams are
practicing daily for the event and the
swat fans of the Colony are getting
ready to root themselves hoarse in-or
der to help their team win in the com
ing game. ,
AREN'T YOU GLAD YOU v
LIVE IN LOUISIANA?
Mr. Elzie Stokes, our ever genial
watchmaker and jeweler", received two
letters last week, ohe from his son, liv
ing in Wyoming, and the other from a
daughter living at Chelburg, Pa. The
son reports 15 inches of snow, while
the daughter tells of very cold weather
and snow still cn the ground. His son
who is in the oil fields of the far north,
reports conditions very bad and no
work. He expects to return to Louis
PRUNE TOMATOES ONCE,
ADVISES SPECIALIST
The mosiac disease of tomatoes is
one that is becoming serious in parts
of Louisiana. This disease causes the
leaves to turn light green in color «md
also retards their development. In ex
treme cases the leaves remain as nar
row strings. Mosaic cuts down the yield'
of the plants to a considerable extent.
If the'plants become infected while
young, no more than fifty percent of a
crop can be expected. The mosaic dis
ease's very îniçclious and is readily
spread from plant to plant. A little
juice from a diseased plant placed with
in the tissues of a healthy plant will
produce infection in a few days time.
Mosaic is spread in the field to a
^large extent by pruning, accorthg to
C. W. Edgerton plant pathologist. Ex
periment Stations, Lousiana State Uni
versity. "The juice from the diseased
plants is carried to healthy ones either
on the fingers or on the pruning knife,"
he says. "It is not uncommon to see
a heavy mosaic infection develop in a
few days after the plants are pruned.
On this account it is not desirable to
prune the plants more than is necessary
*as pruning hastens the development of
the fruit and a certain amount of it is
necessary but bad results are liable to
follow too much pruning. One good
pruning is usually sufficient. At that
time all of the shoots up to the first
flower cluster can be removed and that
is usually sufficient for Louisiana con
ditions.'
CO-OP. CIGAR FACTORY
IS BOOMING SUCCESS
(By The Federated Press)
Tampa, Fla. -j- The union cigar
workers of Tampa, who were forced out
of èmployment by an open shop cam
paign eight months ago, report that the
co-operative cigar factory, founded to
give the men employment, has not only
made a net profit of eight percent on
the funds invested by the workers, but
has found such a demand for its pro
duct that it is raising its capital from
$5,000 to $50,000 to take care of the
increased business.
AMERICAN MILITARISM
APPLIED AT HOME
(By The Federated Press)
'Santa Fe, N. M. — Martial law in
the Gallup coal fields was proclaimed
by Gov. M. C. Mechern after an. alleg
ed riot in the Mentmore camp in which
no one was injured. The governor
seized on the sheriff's appeal as a pre
text to order the district flooded with
national guard troops from Albuquer
que and Santa Fe.
The United Mine Workers of Am
erica h^d unexpectedly succeeded in
organizing a large group of non-union
miners. '
GERMANY AND RUSSIA
COME TO UNDERSTANDING
(By The Federated Press)
Genoa (by cable). — In signing the
treaty of Rapallo Sunday, Germany
and Russia have put the Genoa con
ference completely in the shade. While
jthe allies were attempting to squeeze
the last drop out of Russia, Germany
improved the occasion and entered in
to full diplomatic and commercial re
lations.
The treaty provides that each na
tion renounce's both its public and pri
vate war claims against the other and
will settle legal questions relating to the
war on a basis of reciprocity. Expen«
ses to each nation arising out of car
ing for war prisoners and interments,
are canceled.
Russia agrees -not to ask payment
for its supplies which were taken into
Germany and sold there, while Ger
many renounces claims resulting from
confiscation by the Soviet government
of German public or private property
provided Russia does not reimburse
other countries or their nationals. Con
sular and diplomatic relations will be
resumed immediately, and each nation
gives the order and its nationals "most,
favored nation" treatment, although
Russia reserves the right to give any
soviet state or former Russian state
special privileges.
Each nation promises to give econ
omic assistance to the other ?nd to
have a preliminary conference in case
of a general international economic set
tlement seems likely.
England and France, which had hop
ed to dominate the conference, and put
Russia and Germany where they be
longed .are objecting to the treaty. The
German delegation announces that the
British were kept informed ever since
the negotiations began. The French
threaten to preceed under the terms of
the Versailles treaty. 'Further occupa
tion of German territory is hinted.
The fact that the German-Russian
agreement brings into clase relations
two of the most powerful nations in
Europe, each of which can supply prac
tically everything that the other lacks,
removes the European situation, so
long dominated by the huge French ar
my and the Supreme British navy, far
ther from western control than at any
time since 1914.
FRENCH RED CROSS
TO HELP RUSSIA
(By The Federated Press)
Berlin. — French Red Cross repre
sentatives and Krestinski, the'head of
the soviet mission here, have signed an
agreement, the first of the kind be
tween France and Russia since the re
volution. In this the French Red Cross
agrees to assist the Volga-stricken peo
ple with food and clothing to the value
of the 6,000,000 francs recently voted
by the Paris chamber for this purpose.
CO-OPERATIVE SHIPPING
FOR FRENCH SAILORS
The French government is selling its,
mercantile fleet, and the Seamen's Fed
eration of France is making arrange
ments to buy 17 of the best ships, 112,
000 tonnage, to be operated co-oper
atively by the union, following the ex
ample set by the Italian seamen's guild,
which owns a co-operative merchant
fleet.
VALUED AT OUE CENT
(By The Federated Press) *
Omaha. — Disappointment for the
American Legion is contained in a dis
trict court decision in its suit for $100,
000 damages against Francis H. Shoe
maker, Non-Partisan league organizer,
who was accused of saying that the he
gion was subsidized by the big inter
ests and that it was the enemy of la
bor. One cent was awarded to the le
gion by the jury.
FARM-LABOR
CANDIDATES VICTORIOUS
-(By The Federated Press)
Centralia, 111. — Farmer-Labor can
didates in the Centralia township elec
tion, April 4, swept the field with the
exception of one assistant supervisor.
An assessor, town clerk, two justices of
the peace, and two assistant supervir
ors were elected by Farmer-Later
votes.
TRADE UNIONS WILL
HELP RUSSIAN SUFFERERS
New York. — Timothy Healy, chair
man of the recently-formed Trade Un
ion National Committee for Russian
Relief,*41 E. 42nd St., has issued an
appeal to the trade unionists of Afti
erica to contribute to the relief of the
famine-stricken sufferers.
U. S. SENATOR LÀDD
DENOUNCES COAL TRUST
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Senator Ladd, No.
Dakota, has issued a statement here
characterizing the coal strike as a crime
of the operators against the miners.
Vitriol and Violets
ALANSON SESSIONS
Agitators in the steel
summarily to be jailed,
the Law and the Profits.
industry are
Thus sayeth
» When Lady Astor ran for parliment
she was frequently heckled by radicals.
To one of her^issenters she made this
crushing rebuke: " You- villain, shut
UP ! " With a few more such brilliant
thinkers, the radical movement will be
utterly destroyed.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ \
Says the Anglo and Londofi Paris
National Bank: "All that can be done
in the present crisis is to appeal to the
sound sense and patriotism of the Am
erican people to stop all efforts to in
crease wages or prices and declare a
truce on all wage controversies." Iii
short, let the workers starve and the
profiteers, profit.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ v
Emma Goldman is now being paid
the coin of the realm for writing dia
tribes against the Soviet Government.
When you probe under the fine phras
es of the anarchist you always find the
potential anti-revolutionist.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The President of Stanford Univer
sity suggests Theodore Roosevelt as a
model for our younger citizens. A
standard dictiohary defines a " model "
•as a " small imitation of the real thing.'
* ¥ ¥ ¥
Elmer Smith, attorney for the Cen
tralia wobblies, was recently deported
from Humboldt County by the Ameri
can Legion for speaking on free spcech.
This will teach these wretched agita
tors that democracy is not to be trifled
with.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Newspaper headline : "Woman held
For Murder Breaks Down." " Some
day the historians will say the same
thing of the capitalist system.
¥ ¥ * ¥
Elbert Gary's formula for dealing
with agitators: Hire thugs to shoot a
helpless woman full of holes and then
crack her cranium wi{h clubs. TKis
makes for law and order. %
¥.¥ ¥ ¥
David Barrows, President of the Uni
versity of California says that the Bol
sheviki are crooks and thieves and
ought to be decimated. One is remin
ded of Ingersoll's epigram: "Colleges,
are places where pebbles are polished
and diamonds are dimmed."
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
James Whitcomb Riley onpe remank
ed to Debs that writing poetry was
sometimes like giving "birth to a rough
shod colt". The task of extracting the
truth about Russia from the daily press
is equally as painful.
* ¥ * ¥
Those who read of the atrocités per
petrated daily against the negro cannot
help but agree with Mark Twain:
"Man was made at the end of the
week's work when God was tired."
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The man who cannot save_money,'V
says Andrew Carnegie, of library cor
ner-stone immortality, "can not and
will not do anything else worth while."
The keen insight displayed by Carne
gie is shown by'the fact that Thomas
P^ine, Percy Shelley, Oliver Goldsmith,
Keats, Coleridge, James Watt, G, J.
Holyoake, William Lloyd Garrison, Je
sus Christ, Emerson, Voltaire, Rous
seau, Ferrer, Socrates, Aristotle—not
one of them could, or would save mon
ey. And look what worthless scamps
they were!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Chris Columbus made an important
discovery, but there's many an immi*
grant here who wishes that Chris had
been content to shine shoes i^ Genoa.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
One of the hopeful signs of an awak
ening social conscience in the Chris
tian Church is the fierce struggle among
the preachers for soap boxes from
which they may denounce the coal bar
ons' violation of contract with the min
ers!
¥ ¥ ¥ *
Three men rob a San Francisco gro
r. Turn about is ftiir play.
PROGRESSIVE GRANGE IS
FRIENDLY TO WORKERS
Seattle. — The King county Pro
gressive Grange has passed a resolution
which would declare any farmer scab
bing on organized labor as expelled
from the organization. In return, the
grange asks workers to buy only from
members of the Progressive grange,
when it is possible.
TAG DAY IN DULUTH
FOR STARVING RUSSIANS
(By The Federated Press)
Duluth, Minn. — Permission to hold
a tag day for starving Russians was
granted by the city council after the
comhnttee from the Friends of Soviet
Russia agreed to drop the word "sovi
et" while soliciting funds and operate
simply as "Friends of Russia."-»
WORDS OF CHEER
FROM UPTON SINCLAIR
Mr. George E. Cantrell, Sec.,
The Llano Publications,
Dear Comrade:—You ask me for a
May Day message, which finds me just
packing up to leave home for a long
trip to gather material for a study of
the control of our educational system
by special privilege. So I can only say
a word of good cheer. Some fifteen
years ago I tried to start a colony, but
it bruned up. I understand that your
colony is spread out over a lot of land,
so you are safe from that particular
danger.
' Needless to say, I am happy at the
success you are having, and I would
not be discouraged over the present
slump in the country; for.people are
going to get over the effects of the
war and are going to wake up to their
own interests once again before many
years have passed. Upton Sinclair.
MINERS' STRIKE A BIG SUCCESS
Altoona, Pa. — Success of the strike
movement among the non-union mem
bers of central and western Pennsyl
vania is passing all expectations.
More than 33,000 non-union men
have walked out and. half of the Penn
sylvania mines on which the employ
ers depended for crushing the strike,
are already shut down.
BIG ATTENDANCE
t AT COLONY THEATER
A large audience assembled at the
theater last Sunday night to listen to
the inspiring strains of music perform
ed by the juvenile band. Pictures of
the Colony were shown as well as thé
reels, "From Dusk to Dawn" graphical
ly describing the economic struggle in
many heartrending phases. Pictufes
that drive home to the common under
standing the seriousness of the condi
tions in the industrial centers and the
mining regions, and the many wrongs
inflicted upon the workers by govern
mental officials in the unequal strug
gle against capitalistic exploiters. Ed
ucation of this kind will speed the day
when misleading propaganda and mis
leading information will find no noe
who can be deceived. Let the good
work go on.
There was only one thing that mar
red the pleasure of the evening. The
operation of the machine was decid
edly imperfect. We surmise a 'pren
tice hand was trying his "luck"
The American Co-operator
LLANO'S MONTHLY MAGAZINE
Special
Llano Anniversary
Number
The May issue of THE AMERICAN
CO-OPERATOR will be a special num
ber, and will carry much good propa
ganda for the Llano Colony. Several
pages will be. given over to expres
sions of many of- its members. Special
articles showing the progress made at
Llano. Some new pictures depicting a
contrast. And many of the regular
magazine features.
This issue will make a speciâlly
GOOD PROPAGANDA for Llano, If
you get an extra copy you can send
it to a friend who may be interested.
Better send in for a few extra copies
for this purpose. Send in early to
avoid disappointment.
Don't Neglect to Order a
Few Extra Copies Now
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of--the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, 'and points out their successful formulas.
It also caries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal opder, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "THE AMERICAN'CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
; The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
American Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Llano Colony
Leesville, Louisiana
THE LAW VIOLATING
KU KLUX KLAN
(By Tî»e Federated Press).
Bakersfield, Cal. — The latest ex
ploit of the Ku Klux Klan in Califor
nia has been to kidnap George Pettye
of this town, flog him with knotted
ropes and order him out of town. The
deed was accomplished by 10 men
wearing white robes and hoods. Pet 1
tye had previously received two let
ters, signed "K. K. K.," ordering him
to cease associating with a certain girl.
NOW WILL YOU BE GOOD?
(By The Federated Press)
Wellington, New Zealand. — To
control the export of meat from New
Zealand the government has passed a
meat export control act. Under this
act the government will be able to deal
with the American meat trusts or other
combination of meat exporters.
The American companies which were
excluded because of unfair practices
will be readmitted under the control
act, subject to their, good behavior.
People become indignant when they
realize that it is their duty to act in
telligently, and they have not the cour
age to do so. But indignation alone is
worthless. It is as useless as mere sym
pathy wheiT actual help is needed.
—St. Louis Labor.
Justice (?) is cheap in California-^
when paid for in gold.— Rena Mooney.
Llano Peanu Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
• V ' /
Nature's Meat for Children
»One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
value and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in 2-lb., 4-lb., and 8-lb. -lb. cans, at 20c a pound.
Send money order for postage
•
Mail your order to—
Llano Co-operative Colony, Leesville, La.
PLUTES
(By The
Berlin.
ftathenau,
and invi
Stinnes,
deputy, is
policy to waver between
German workers have
extend the operation of ti
law to August 31, but face a
fight by employers to abolish k
Conan Doyle is lecturing in America
and says that spirit communication is
demonstrated beyond doubt. He is con
vinced. He has communicated with
twenty dead people and seven or ten
people heard his dead son speak. The
spirits are revitalized on diaphonous
ectoplasm emanating from the celiac
plexus of the medium's body. Great
audiences atfcepd; we all seek a sur
cease from sorrow and a brace to a
struggling Hope; we want to be con
vinced and the wayshower is hailed
with delight
So many voice Omar when he says:
No one has ever drawn aside the veil
of fate. To none are the secrets of
divinity made known. For seventy
two years I have pondered thereon by
day and night, but I have learned noth
ing, and the riddle remains unread."
Be a booster; boost co-operation in
action.
Leesville and Louisiana Items
NOTICE TO ALL CANDIDATES
The town executive committee of
Leesvilie will meet Saturday March
25th, for the purpose of drawing and
appointing a committee and the clerk
for the town election to be held on
April II. 1922.
All candidates are requested to be
present and make selection of Commit
tee and clerk.
John R. Bagents, Jr.
LEESVILLES ELECTION
The election campaign in^ Leesville
is proceeding very quickly. There is
no excitement and no public meetings
have as yet been held. There are no
glaring posters praising the virtues,
achievements, or promises of the re
spective candidates, who, though ex
pecting to defeat their vopponents, are
apparently the best of friends when
they pass by, greeting one another af
fably as if there were no such thing
as politics. The most prominent fig
ure in this amiable contest, Hon. Os
car E. Morris, Mayor, and candidate
for reelection, when requested to make
a statement as to the political situation
and his possible or probable prospects
of good fortune, replied smilingly:
"This is fine spring weather; 1 feel
splendid; I am in the best of good
health and just keep on doing my work
of daily routine and have nothing else
to say but that still waters are deep."
Thought is the seed of action.—Em
LEWIS BROS.
LEADING TAILORS
Phone 227
MAKE PANTS IN ONE DAY
We Tailor Them Right
Sanitary Cleaning and Pressing
ALTERING AND DYEING
DR. I. O. WINFREE
DENTIST
Office in Lyons Building
Over Stephens' Store
Telephones — Office 132
Residence.... 79
Post Office Box 126.
B. A. GUY
NEW AND SECOND-HAND '
FURNITURE
Only Store in Leesville Selling 2nd
hand Furniture
Next Door to Lewis, the Tailor's
Roberts, Tailors
We handle all kinds of tailoring
work and guarantee satisfaction, or no
charges. Phone 144.
Goodyear Shoe
Repairs
AT REASONABLE RATES
STABLES, LA.
NOW ONLY 20 CENTS A POJJND
Llano Peanut Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
Nature's Meat for Children
One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
Vcilue and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in 1 -lb., 4-lb., and 8-lb. cans, at 20c a pound.
Mail your order to—
Llano Co-operative Colony, Leesville, La.
POLICE JURY GETS SAFE
The Vernon Parish Police Jury have
added to their office equipment a fine
big steel safe made by the General
Fireproofing Company, of Youngstown,
Ohio. It is about six feet high, and
four feet wide, constructed of nickle
stee !' and '^ s general outline is soberly
®*- ra, 8"' an d elegant, bespeaking grace
fulness and strength, the color chosen
being a soft olive green, with narrow
gilt ornamental panel lines.
FARM-LABOR UNION ORGANIZES
The meeting of the Farm Labor Un
ion took place at the court house at
9 • r>i l • i i .
p.m., organizer Rnodes m the chair.
there were about 59 people present,
Mr. Rhodes, Mr. Benton and Mr. Thür
man made short addresses to the as
sembly. Mr. Thurman stated that the
„„v.- r .
conditions that at present confront the
rarmer compelled him to take some
steps to better his condition, that the
farmer had allowed things to go on in
almost any direction, and as a con
sequence of that he and his family are
suffering in more ways than one. To
work hard ail the year'and find at its
end that he was no nearer to his am
bition, is the thing that wiil snr.k
,
u C
farmer awaken, whether he will or no.
He reads here and there in the pape s
• * • * - ^ H "
at his command, what the farmers are
doing by organizing in other parts of
the country, and he has at last come
out of his shell and is taking notice..
Mr. Benton made an impressive
speech, citing the example of Oklaho
ma as just one state that had organiz
ed for the purpose of protecting the
farmer from the "farm sharks" who
spent all this waking hours to find how
they can squeeze every spare dollar
they can from the class whom they
have found are the most easily robbed.
You borrow money to put your crop
in, and when you have raised a crop,
you find that you won't have enough
out of it to pay even the interest on
the money you have borrowed; then
the mortgage hits you, as it has hit
millions, until you think that you have
too much land. And all the time you
have worked from 12 to 16 hours a
day—and whom for? That is the ques
tion. And its answer when found will
decide whether you will join this 'body
or not. f
The organization was made perman
ent and the following officers were el
ected: J. J. Cryer of Rosepine, presi
dent; J. W. Mathis of Leesville, vice
pres..
Farm Labor Union, No. 2: J. 0.
Fountain, organizer; L. Eason, con
ductor; Chas.. Davis, doorkeeper; J.
Byrne, chairman, city council commit
tee, J. Russel, Chaplain.
It was decided to defer the election
of executive committee until some fu
ture date. President Cryer made a few
remarks on the conditions of the far
mers in Vernon Parish and made an ur
gent appeal to them to stand together
for all there is in it, because there
no other way out as he could see.
After much discussion it was decided
fo hold the next meeting Saturday,
March 25, at ten o'clock sharp at the
court house.
Under the rulings of the attorney
general, all voters must come to the
court house to be registered.. The reg
istration of voters on the bond issus in
the Sixth Ward will close at 6 p.m.,
April I.
There is no thought in any mind but
it quickly tends to convert itself into
a power.—Emerson. '
FACULTY MEMBERS
ATTEND MEETING
The annual meeting of the southern
agricultural workers held in Atlanta,
Ga., on February 20, 21, and 22 was
a very enthusiastic one anç! gave earn
est consideration to conditions in the
South to-day, according to E. L. Jor
dan, professor of animal industry in
the University. About 300 people en- 1
gaged in teaching and research and
extension work were present from 14
Southern states.
"The consensus of opinion was that
co-operative marketing is very essen
tial to the future agri6ultural success
of th^ South," said Professor Jordan.
That the present methods of the
farmer could be greatly improved was
expressed by the meeting, and means
of accomplishing this end were dis
cussed. The man whose only crop is
«-uaöcu. iiic iiidii wiiuse uiinr
j cotton cannot make a living at present
land the growth of better cotton in re
igard to yield andquajity should be
i encouraged. It was shown that the
! qua ] ity ° f , a [ &T & P art f the coU ° n
produced is belo w the lowest. grade
hand i ed on the cotton ex thange and
brings the farmer practically nothing.
The yield, both per man and per acne,
should be raised and more land devo
ted to stock, hogs, dairy cattle, and
poultry.
Diversification by sections rather
k™ * SeCt '° nS , Tj
tha " by famS Wa " re ' :ommended and
in this way crops could be confined
to sections best adapted for their pro
duction, although each farmer should
» c i . r
I™* ™ T** things needed for
his own home use as possible.
Ninety percent of the meat supplied
by the South is below the competitive
interstate grade, according to statistics
furnished the meeting by Armour and.
Co., and it was suggested that better 1
methods of feeding be employed so as
to raW the standard of livestock in
the South
The co-ordination of the agricultur- j
al courses given in the colleges of the j
South was urged by the meeting before '
it adjourned.. It was pointed out that
this step would bring the various col
lege courses into greater conformity
and mean the saving of considerable
time to the student who changes col
leges before completing his course.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
The happy couples who obtained
marriage licenses at the office of Hon
A. R. Hicks, Clerk of Vernon Parish,
were: Mr. John L. Williams and Miss
Leona Lowell, both of Slagle; Mr.
J- C. Wright and Mrs. Mary Sexton,
^^h of Stables, Mr. Chärles ^X^est, of
and Miss J ane Funderburk,
Mink.
THE STORM FIEND
Vernon Parish is in luck.. That wind
storm that came over us last Monday
evening was the gathering together of
the elements before they made an at
tack, and when they did make one,
they made a good one; but not here.
It waited until it got to Sulphur, Okla.*
and there it sure did some rough work.
It tore a path two blocks wide through
the town, tearing everything to pieces,
as it went on its course. The proper
ty damage is over $100,000 and that
is some amount,for a small town like
Sulphur, Oklahoma..
PARISH FAIR DATE IS SET
FOR OCTOBER 12 TO 14
The Louisiana association of live
stock fairs met at Baton Rouge last
week and set the dates for all the fairs
in the association.
The date set for the Vernon Parish
Fair was Thursday, Friday and Satur
day, October 12, 13, and 14.
The dates for the State Fair at
Shreveport have been set for October
19 to 29, several days earlier than for
merly.
Vernon Parish farmers should set
down the date of their parish fair, and
the state fair, and plan to have some
thing to exhibit there. If Vernon far
mers would show each other what
they can produce in this parish, they
would be doing a wonderful service to
their parish. It would create a feeling
of patriotism of the highest kind, the
desire to build up one's home land.
HE'S SARCASTIC
The Chamber of Commerce of
Shreveport has received a letter from
J. G. Felker of Haynesville,- La., en
quiring whether there would be any
inducements for him to start a factory
for the manufacture of tar and feath
ers ? He seems to be of the opinion
that there is such a demand for these
two articles mentioned that it would
be a good inducement to start a fac
tory at once and turn them out by
wholesale.
Keep your face always toward the
sunshine and then the shadows will
fall behind you.— M. B. Whitman.
There is a necessary limit To our
achievement, but none to our attempt.
—Phillips Brooks
The Junior Colonist
MAXINE GADDIS— EDITOR
Editor, Maxine Gaddis; Reporters,
Margaret Seelye, Max Beavers, Clar
ence Shutt.
WEEK'S WORK OF THE LLANO
SCHOOL CHILDREN
Margaret Seelye gave violin lessons.
She now has eleven pupils. Laura
Synoground, J. T. Green, Kenneth
Thurman and Truman Benthall (who
brought in a violin with him) are new
pupils.
Clarence Shutt, Victor Gaddis and
Maxine Gaddis worked at the print
shop. Also Albert Kapotsy and Ar
thur Montrose worked there during the
àfternoons this week.
John Dougherty watered the chick
ens. . %
Bennett Babb has charge of the Jun
iors, and they work wherever they are
needed. They have been working to
get our cafeteria started.
Nellie Kemp and Mable Synoground
worked at the kindergarten, helping
Myrtle with the kiddoos.
Mildred Seelye, lErma and Helen
Jjgde now have charge of. the candy
kitchen during Mrs. Shutt's absence.
We are looking forward to some good
candy.
Beulalî Gaddis, Louise Belohradsky
and Rosa Matz worked at the office,
as usual.
Nellie Kemp, Vinita Thurman, Ruby
Synoground, Maxine and Victor Gad
dis, Laura Merrill and Bennett Babb
worked at the hotel waiting on tables
and drying silverware.
* ¥ * *
.. v , , , , . ,
1 Mr. Kapotsy has completéd the job
of fl , ttm 8 f the P'P e , for ™ nnmg the , wa "
ter down from the hotel to our cafeter
la ' a ' so " ot water pipes and tank
j have been conn ^ £ ith the stove "
j - , , . . ,
' had a very interesting lesson last
Wednesday in writing-music. We were
g,ven a and told to wnte * lun< :
ffl 8 .*• We Were a11 very lnterested
and there were some real good tunes
written by the high school pupils. Mr.
Martin, our instructor, seemed well
pleased with our efforts. We are all
looking forward to our next lesson with
much pleasure.
—Margaret Seelye.
* * * *
Mrs. Martin has her hands full çgain.
All her absent pupils have returned to
YOU Read
The American Co-operator
MARCH NUMBER NOW IN MAIL
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, and points out their successful formulas.
It also carries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal order, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "TBS AMERICAN CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
Afnerican Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
Job Harriman's Editorials are well worth the price of the year's subscription, for
they are far-seeing, thought-provoking, and always new.
You can learn Esperanto through the Easy Lessons printed in The American Co
operator and written by Howard Buck.
Theo. F. Cuno, a veteran radical newspaper writer, gives two pages of comment
on the latest thought in current reading, throwing the spotlight of years of experience
onto the sayings of men of to-day.
Many othîr special articles are printed each month.
You bught to keep in touch with this line of thought. The writers in "The Am
erican Co-operator" write without fear of editorial displeasure; they speak their minds.
It is free thought.
CONTENTS OF THE MARCH NUMBER
THE PACIFIC CO-OPERATIVE
„LEAGUE IN RECEIVERS' HANDS
TO PROTECT MEMBERS.
THE SPIRIT OF REVOLUTIQN
Alanson Sessions.
-By
WE, OF NEWLLANO—By Theo F.
Cuno.
THE FAILURE OF CO-OPERATORS
TO CO-OPERATE—By Job Harri
•IS DEATH NECESSARY?"—By Dr.
John DeQuer.
JOB HARRIMAN'S EDITORIALS.
DOINGS OF THE MONTH AT
LLANO—By Frank H. Newman.
EASY LESSONS IN ESPERANTO;
AND CURRENT NOTES—By How
ard L. Buck.
UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE BRO.
THERHOOD LOGICAL FRUIT OF
PROPAGANDA — By Ernest S.
Wooster.
OPEN LETTER TO W. R. ATKINSON
—By H. E. Branch.
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Llano Colony
Leesville, Louisiana
school again, after a period of illness.
Katherine Cantrell and Freddie
Tackett were the last ones to recover
and return.
1- % % *
Mr. Messenger has given the Junior
Orchestra the use of a fine violin and
a ; mandoiin-banjo. We thank him very
much.
A fine time was had by all last Sun
day, March 12th, when the "Glad U
Kum Club" had their first picnic. We
left the school house about 10:30 a
m. and went to the swimming pool and
spent the rest of the day there. In
the morning we had our fun ; some go
ing in swimming and also fixing up
for dinnet, We had dinner about I : -
30 p.m. and I don't think anyone can
complain about the dinner. After d : n
ner the sports began. We had three
legged race, wheel-barrow race, sum
mer-set race, and had running races
for the girls. The winners were:
fhree-legged race, Bill Beavers and
Walter Langridge; wheel-barrow race,
ß^nnett ßäbb and Vernon Boyce; sum
mer-set race, Bennett Babb. Of the
girls' race, Maxine Gaddis. Also we
had running broad jump, 'and stand
ing broad jump. Robert Lindsey won
standing broad jump. Bennett Babb
won running broad jump; A little la
ter we had a boxing match between
Clifford and Mable Synoground. He
must be in the hospital this morning
from the way he was beaten. That
ended the program for the day, except
for the swimming which everybody en
joyed.—Max Beavers.
¥ ¥ * *
The swimming pool is getting very
popular nowadays. On Sunday all the
kids are out there. And say! You
ought to see some of them dive and
swim! They can even beat the ducks !
¥ * ¥ v
We now have a new boy in our
school, whosç name is Clifford West.
He is fourteen and he drove a tractor
over five miles of Louisiana roads.
Now when a boy does that at this time
of the year, he is some boy. When
I asked him how the roads were, he
said they are decidedly bad. He also
said they only got stuck five times and
had to pull out two cars. We are all
very glad to have Clifford for a school
mate.
i '. »»l l 'llli Ml I i ii i l M l
I SPINELESS UNIONISM CAUSED
"OPEN SHOP" MOVE
(By The Federated' Pre»»)
Chicago. •'— "The Trade Union Ed
ucational league program is quite sim
ple," said William Z. Foster, secretary.
"It aims at giving the organized work
ers the strongest possible unions and
the most militant fighting spirit. The
league is entirely out of harmony with
the conservatism that has hitherto
characterized the American trade un
ion movement. Our trade unions have
striven hard to be respectable, in the
hope that in this manner they would
win some favor or consideration from
the employing class. As a result, they
have not only spurned radical ideas,
but have also failed to adopt modern
structures. But their hope has been
frustrated. Although they are the most
conservative labor movement in the
world, they have less standing and are
more bitterly fought than the trade un
ions in any other important country.
SELF-GOVERNMENT FOR EGYPT
SIMPLY CAMOUFLAGED
BRITISH IMPERIALISM
(By The Federated Pres»)
London. — Lord Allenby's plan for
the government of Egypt is sure to
prove unacceptable to the Egyptians,
Daily Herald diplomatic correspondent
déclarés, for it is based on the retention
inEgypt of the British army of occupa
tion, and of British officials overseeing
and dictating the policy of the Egyp
tian government. The formal aboli
tion of the British protectorate does
not mean anything when it is coupled
with the actual maintenance of Brit
ish rule.
A telegram from Mansourah, which
is characteristic, reads: "We assure the
British government that any agreement
meet with utter failure."
The school is growing so large that
we will have to have a new school
house this summer, "there are new
pupils coming in all the time.
—Margaret Seelye.
* * * *
We had a large crowd at the hotel
to-day and could not seat them all at
:e. We thought at first that we
weren't going to get thru, but all of a
sudden eight thoughtful school kids
came to our rescue, and we got thru
quicker than usual. Many thanks to
you, schoolmates.—M(ixine Gaddis.
FARMERS QUIT CROP HARVESTS
Low Prices, except On Cabbages,
Bring "Strike"
HazlsKum, Miss., April 21. — The
vegetable market here has been slov#y
receding and prices have been disap
pointing to farmers, who have quit
harvesting. They say it wouldn't pay
there. Hazlehurst sent away seven
cars yesterday, loaded with cabbage,
carrots, beets and English péas. Calv
bages, on the increase, going up 25
cents a crate yesterday, is the only
vegetable to bring farmers a profit this*
week. Copiah county has shipped
out forty cars of vegetable, netting
the farmers about $30,000.
LEESVILLE DEFEATS LLANO:
TO PLAY AGAIN MONDAY
The Llano* baseball club, which has
enjoyed an Uninterrupted series of vic
tories, met with their first defeat of
the season in a very disastrous mannjr
last Sunday. A picked team from Lees
ville walloped them to the rare old tune
of 22 to 5, and without mach trouble,
either. Besides being handicapped by
the loss of two of their best men, the
Colony boys had an off day, none of
them playing up to form. The-losers
proved themselves good sports, though,
and took their defeat in good nature,
inviting the winners back for a return
match on May Day. Both teams are
practicing daily for the event and the
swat fans of the Colony are getting
ready to root themselves hoarse in-or
der to help their team win in the com
ing game. ,
AREN'T YOU GLAD YOU v
LIVE IN LOUISIANA?
Mr. Elzie Stokes, our ever genial
watchmaker and jeweler", received two
letters last week, ohe from his son, liv
ing in Wyoming, and the other from a
daughter living at Chelburg, Pa. The
son reports 15 inches of snow, while
the daughter tells of very cold weather
and snow still cn the ground. His son
who is in the oil fields of the far north,
reports conditions very bad and no
work. He expects to return to Louis
PRUNE TOMATOES ONCE,
ADVISES SPECIALIST
The mosiac disease of tomatoes is
one that is becoming serious in parts
of Louisiana. This disease causes the
leaves to turn light green in color «md
also retards their development. In ex
treme cases the leaves remain as nar
row strings. Mosaic cuts down the yield'
of the plants to a considerable extent.
If the'plants become infected while
young, no more than fifty percent of a
crop can be expected. The mosaic dis
ease's very îniçclious and is readily
spread from plant to plant. A little
juice from a diseased plant placed with
in the tissues of a healthy plant will
produce infection in a few days time.
Mosaic is spread in the field to a
^large extent by pruning, accorthg to
C. W. Edgerton plant pathologist. Ex
periment Stations, Lousiana State Uni
versity. "The juice from the diseased
plants is carried to healthy ones either
on the fingers or on the pruning knife,"
he says. "It is not uncommon to see
a heavy mosaic infection develop in a
few days after the plants are pruned.
On this account it is not desirable to
prune the plants more than is necessary
*as pruning hastens the development of
the fruit and a certain amount of it is
necessary but bad results are liable to
follow too much pruning. One good
pruning is usually sufficient. At that
time all of the shoots up to the first
flower cluster can be removed and that
is usually sufficient for Louisiana con
ditions.'
CO-OP. CIGAR FACTORY
IS BOOMING SUCCESS
(By The Federated Press)
Tampa, Fla. -j- The union cigar
workers of Tampa, who were forced out
of èmployment by an open shop cam
paign eight months ago, report that the
co-operative cigar factory, founded to
give the men employment, has not only
made a net profit of eight percent on
the funds invested by the workers, but
has found such a demand for its pro
duct that it is raising its capital from
$5,000 to $50,000 to take care of the
increased business.
AMERICAN MILITARISM
APPLIED AT HOME
(By The Federated Press)
'Santa Fe, N. M. — Martial law in
the Gallup coal fields was proclaimed
by Gov. M. C. Mechern after an. alleg
ed riot in the Mentmore camp in which
no one was injured. The governor
seized on the sheriff's appeal as a pre
text to order the district flooded with
national guard troops from Albuquer
que and Santa Fe.
The United Mine Workers of Am
erica h^d unexpectedly succeeded in
organizing a large group of non-union
miners. '
GERMANY AND RUSSIA
COME TO UNDERSTANDING
(By The Federated Press)
Genoa (by cable). — In signing the
treaty of Rapallo Sunday, Germany
and Russia have put the Genoa con
ference completely in the shade. While
jthe allies were attempting to squeeze
the last drop out of Russia, Germany
improved the occasion and entered in
to full diplomatic and commercial re
lations.
The treaty provides that each na
tion renounce's both its public and pri
vate war claims against the other and
will settle legal questions relating to the
war on a basis of reciprocity. Expen«
ses to each nation arising out of car
ing for war prisoners and interments,
are canceled.
Russia agrees -not to ask payment
for its supplies which were taken into
Germany and sold there, while Ger
many renounces claims resulting from
confiscation by the Soviet government
of German public or private property
provided Russia does not reimburse
other countries or their nationals. Con
sular and diplomatic relations will be
resumed immediately, and each nation
gives the order and its nationals "most,
favored nation" treatment, although
Russia reserves the right to give any
soviet state or former Russian state
special privileges.
Each nation promises to give econ
omic assistance to the other ?nd to
have a preliminary conference in case
of a general international economic set
tlement seems likely.
England and France, which had hop
ed to dominate the conference, and put
Russia and Germany where they be
longed .are objecting to the treaty. The
German delegation announces that the
British were kept informed ever since
the negotiations began. The French
threaten to preceed under the terms of
the Versailles treaty. 'Further occupa
tion of German territory is hinted.
The fact that the German-Russian
agreement brings into clase relations
two of the most powerful nations in
Europe, each of which can supply prac
tically everything that the other lacks,
removes the European situation, so
long dominated by the huge French ar
my and the Supreme British navy, far
ther from western control than at any
time since 1914.
FRENCH RED CROSS
TO HELP RUSSIA
(By The Federated Press)
Berlin. — French Red Cross repre
sentatives and Krestinski, the'head of
the soviet mission here, have signed an
agreement, the first of the kind be
tween France and Russia since the re
volution. In this the French Red Cross
agrees to assist the Volga-stricken peo
ple with food and clothing to the value
of the 6,000,000 francs recently voted
by the Paris chamber for this purpose.
CO-OPERATIVE SHIPPING
FOR FRENCH SAILORS
The French government is selling its,
mercantile fleet, and the Seamen's Fed
eration of France is making arrange
ments to buy 17 of the best ships, 112,
000 tonnage, to be operated co-oper
atively by the union, following the ex
ample set by the Italian seamen's guild,
which owns a co-operative merchant
fleet.
VALUED AT OUE CENT
(By The Federated Press) *
Omaha. — Disappointment for the
American Legion is contained in a dis
trict court decision in its suit for $100,
000 damages against Francis H. Shoe
maker, Non-Partisan league organizer,
who was accused of saying that the he
gion was subsidized by the big inter
ests and that it was the enemy of la
bor. One cent was awarded to the le
gion by the jury.
FARM-LABOR
CANDIDATES VICTORIOUS
-(By The Federated Press)
Centralia, 111. — Farmer-Labor can
didates in the Centralia township elec
tion, April 4, swept the field with the
exception of one assistant supervisor.
An assessor, town clerk, two justices of
the peace, and two assistant supervir
ors were elected by Farmer-Later
votes.
TRADE UNIONS WILL
HELP RUSSIAN SUFFERERS
New York. — Timothy Healy, chair
man of the recently-formed Trade Un
ion National Committee for Russian
Relief,*41 E. 42nd St., has issued an
appeal to the trade unionists of Afti
erica to contribute to the relief of the
famine-stricken sufferers.
U. S. SENATOR LÀDD
DENOUNCES COAL TRUST
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Senator Ladd, No.
Dakota, has issued a statement here
characterizing the coal strike as a crime
of the operators against the miners.
Vitriol and Violets
ALANSON SESSIONS
Agitators in the steel
summarily to be jailed,
the Law and the Profits.
industry are
Thus sayeth
» When Lady Astor ran for parliment
she was frequently heckled by radicals.
To one of her^issenters she made this
crushing rebuke: " You- villain, shut
UP ! " With a few more such brilliant
thinkers, the radical movement will be
utterly destroyed.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ \
Says the Anglo and Londofi Paris
National Bank: "All that can be done
in the present crisis is to appeal to the
sound sense and patriotism of the Am
erican people to stop all efforts to in
crease wages or prices and declare a
truce on all wage controversies." Iii
short, let the workers starve and the
profiteers, profit.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ v
Emma Goldman is now being paid
the coin of the realm for writing dia
tribes against the Soviet Government.
When you probe under the fine phras
es of the anarchist you always find the
potential anti-revolutionist.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The President of Stanford Univer
sity suggests Theodore Roosevelt as a
model for our younger citizens. A
standard dictiohary defines a " model "
•as a " small imitation of the real thing.'
* ¥ ¥ ¥
Elmer Smith, attorney for the Cen
tralia wobblies, was recently deported
from Humboldt County by the Ameri
can Legion for speaking on free spcech.
This will teach these wretched agita
tors that democracy is not to be trifled
with.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Newspaper headline : "Woman held
For Murder Breaks Down." " Some
day the historians will say the same
thing of the capitalist system.
¥ ¥ * ¥
Elbert Gary's formula for dealing
with agitators: Hire thugs to shoot a
helpless woman full of holes and then
crack her cranium wi{h clubs. TKis
makes for law and order. %
¥.¥ ¥ ¥
David Barrows, President of the Uni
versity of California says that the Bol
sheviki are crooks and thieves and
ought to be decimated. One is remin
ded of Ingersoll's epigram: "Colleges,
are places where pebbles are polished
and diamonds are dimmed."
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
James Whitcomb Riley onpe remank
ed to Debs that writing poetry was
sometimes like giving "birth to a rough
shod colt". The task of extracting the
truth about Russia from the daily press
is equally as painful.
* ¥ * ¥
Those who read of the atrocités per
petrated daily against the negro cannot
help but agree with Mark Twain:
"Man was made at the end of the
week's work when God was tired."
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The man who cannot save_money,'V
says Andrew Carnegie, of library cor
ner-stone immortality, "can not and
will not do anything else worth while."
The keen insight displayed by Carne
gie is shown by'the fact that Thomas
P^ine, Percy Shelley, Oliver Goldsmith,
Keats, Coleridge, James Watt, G, J.
Holyoake, William Lloyd Garrison, Je
sus Christ, Emerson, Voltaire, Rous
seau, Ferrer, Socrates, Aristotle—not
one of them could, or would save mon
ey. And look what worthless scamps
they were!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Chris Columbus made an important
discovery, but there's many an immi*
grant here who wishes that Chris had
been content to shine shoes i^ Genoa.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
One of the hopeful signs of an awak
ening social conscience in the Chris
tian Church is the fierce struggle among
the preachers for soap boxes from
which they may denounce the coal bar
ons' violation of contract with the min
ers!
¥ ¥ ¥ *
Three men rob a San Francisco gro
r. Turn about is ftiir play.
PROGRESSIVE GRANGE IS
FRIENDLY TO WORKERS
Seattle. — The King county Pro
gressive Grange has passed a resolution
which would declare any farmer scab
bing on organized labor as expelled
from the organization. In return, the
grange asks workers to buy only from
members of the Progressive grange,
when it is possible.
TAG DAY IN DULUTH
FOR STARVING RUSSIANS
(By The Federated Press)
Duluth, Minn. — Permission to hold
a tag day for starving Russians was
granted by the city council after the
comhnttee from the Friends of Soviet
Russia agreed to drop the word "sovi
et" while soliciting funds and operate
simply as "Friends of Russia."-»
WORDS OF CHEER
FROM UPTON SINCLAIR
Mr. George E. Cantrell, Sec.,
The Llano Publications,
Dear Comrade:—You ask me for a
May Day message, which finds me just
packing up to leave home for a long
trip to gather material for a study of
the control of our educational system
by special privilege. So I can only say
a word of good cheer. Some fifteen
years ago I tried to start a colony, but
it bruned up. I understand that your
colony is spread out over a lot of land,
so you are safe from that particular
danger.
' Needless to say, I am happy at the
success you are having, and I would
not be discouraged over the present
slump in the country; for.people are
going to get over the effects of the
war and are going to wake up to their
own interests once again before many
years have passed. Upton Sinclair.
MINERS' STRIKE A BIG SUCCESS
Altoona, Pa. — Success of the strike
movement among the non-union mem
bers of central and western Pennsyl
vania is passing all expectations.
More than 33,000 non-union men
have walked out and. half of the Penn
sylvania mines on which the employ
ers depended for crushing the strike,
are already shut down.
BIG ATTENDANCE
t AT COLONY THEATER
A large audience assembled at the
theater last Sunday night to listen to
the inspiring strains of music perform
ed by the juvenile band. Pictures of
the Colony were shown as well as thé
reels, "From Dusk to Dawn" graphical
ly describing the economic struggle in
many heartrending phases. Pictufes
that drive home to the common under
standing the seriousness of the condi
tions in the industrial centers and the
mining regions, and the many wrongs
inflicted upon the workers by govern
mental officials in the unequal strug
gle against capitalistic exploiters. Ed
ucation of this kind will speed the day
when misleading propaganda and mis
leading information will find no noe
who can be deceived. Let the good
work go on.
There was only one thing that mar
red the pleasure of the evening. The
operation of the machine was decid
edly imperfect. We surmise a 'pren
tice hand was trying his "luck"
The American Co-operator
LLANO'S MONTHLY MAGAZINE
Special
Llano Anniversary
Number
The May issue of THE AMERICAN
CO-OPERATOR will be a special num
ber, and will carry much good propa
ganda for the Llano Colony. Several
pages will be. given over to expres
sions of many of- its members. Special
articles showing the progress made at
Llano. Some new pictures depicting a
contrast. And many of the regular
magazine features.
This issue will make a speciâlly
GOOD PROPAGANDA for Llano, If
you get an extra copy you can send
it to a friend who may be interested.
Better send in for a few extra copies
for this purpose. Send in early to
avoid disappointment.
Don't Neglect to Order a
Few Extra Copies Now
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of--the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, 'and points out their successful formulas.
It also caries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal opder, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "THE AMERICAN'CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
; The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
American Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Llano Colony
Leesville, Louisiana
THE LAW VIOLATING
KU KLUX KLAN
(By Tî»e Federated Press).
Bakersfield, Cal. — The latest ex
ploit of the Ku Klux Klan in Califor
nia has been to kidnap George Pettye
of this town, flog him with knotted
ropes and order him out of town. The
deed was accomplished by 10 men
wearing white robes and hoods. Pet 1
tye had previously received two let
ters, signed "K. K. K.," ordering him
to cease associating with a certain girl.
NOW WILL YOU BE GOOD?
(By The Federated Press)
Wellington, New Zealand. — To
control the export of meat from New
Zealand the government has passed a
meat export control act. Under this
act the government will be able to deal
with the American meat trusts or other
combination of meat exporters.
The American companies which were
excluded because of unfair practices
will be readmitted under the control
act, subject to their, good behavior.
People become indignant when they
realize that it is their duty to act in
telligently, and they have not the cour
age to do so. But indignation alone is
worthless. It is as useless as mere sym
pathy wheiT actual help is needed.
—St. Louis Labor.
Justice (?) is cheap in California-^
when paid for in gold.— Rena Mooney.
Llano Peanu Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
• V ' /
Nature's Meat for Children
»One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
value and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in 2-lb., 4-lb., and 8-lb. -lb. cans, at 20c a pound.
Send money order for postage
•
Mail your order to—
Llano Co-operative Colony, Leesville, La.
PLUTES
(By The
Berlin.
ftathenau,
and invi
Stinnes,
deputy, is
policy to waver between
German workers have
extend the operation of ti
law to August 31, but face a
fight by employers to abolish k
Conan Doyle is lecturing in America
and says that spirit communication is
demonstrated beyond doubt. He is con
vinced. He has communicated with
twenty dead people and seven or ten
people heard his dead son speak. The
spirits are revitalized on diaphonous
ectoplasm emanating from the celiac
plexus of the medium's body. Great
audiences atfcepd; we all seek a sur
cease from sorrow and a brace to a
struggling Hope; we want to be con
vinced and the wayshower is hailed
with delight
So many voice Omar when he says:
No one has ever drawn aside the veil
of fate. To none are the secrets of
divinity made known. For seventy
two years I have pondered thereon by
day and night, but I have learned noth
ing, and the riddle remains unread."
Be a booster; boost co-operation in
action.
Leesville and Louisiana Items
NOTICE TO ALL CANDIDATES
The town executive committee of
Leesvilie will meet Saturday March
25th, for the purpose of drawing and
appointing a committee and the clerk
for the town election to be held on
April II. 1922.
All candidates are requested to be
present and make selection of Commit
tee and clerk.
John R. Bagents, Jr.
LEESVILLES ELECTION
The election campaign in^ Leesville
is proceeding very quickly. There is
no excitement and no public meetings
have as yet been held. There are no
glaring posters praising the virtues,
achievements, or promises of the re
spective candidates, who, though ex
pecting to defeat their vopponents, are
apparently the best of friends when
they pass by, greeting one another af
fably as if there were no such thing
as politics. The most prominent fig
ure in this amiable contest, Hon. Os
car E. Morris, Mayor, and candidate
for reelection, when requested to make
a statement as to the political situation
and his possible or probable prospects
of good fortune, replied smilingly:
"This is fine spring weather; 1 feel
splendid; I am in the best of good
health and just keep on doing my work
of daily routine and have nothing else
to say but that still waters are deep."
Thought is the seed of action.—Em
LEWIS BROS.
LEADING TAILORS
Phone 227
MAKE PANTS IN ONE DAY
We Tailor Them Right
Sanitary Cleaning and Pressing
ALTERING AND DYEING
DR. I. O. WINFREE
DENTIST
Office in Lyons Building
Over Stephens' Store
Telephones — Office 132
Residence.... 79
Post Office Box 126.
B. A. GUY
NEW AND SECOND-HAND '
FURNITURE
Only Store in Leesville Selling 2nd
hand Furniture
Next Door to Lewis, the Tailor's
Roberts, Tailors
We handle all kinds of tailoring
work and guarantee satisfaction, or no
charges. Phone 144.
Goodyear Shoe
Repairs
AT REASONABLE RATES
STABLES, LA.
NOW ONLY 20 CENTS A POJJND
Llano Peanut Butter
Made from Spanish Peanuts only, with the natural oils retained and only a
little salt added for seasoning. The purest peanut butter made
Nature's Meat for Children
One pound of Llano Peanut Butter equals three pounds of steak in food
Vcilue and is more digestible and especially good for children
Put up in 1 -lb., 4-lb., and 8-lb. cans, at 20c a pound.
Mail your order to—
Llano Co-operative Colony, Leesville, La.
POLICE JURY GETS SAFE
The Vernon Parish Police Jury have
added to their office equipment a fine
big steel safe made by the General
Fireproofing Company, of Youngstown,
Ohio. It is about six feet high, and
four feet wide, constructed of nickle
stee !' and '^ s general outline is soberly
®*- ra, 8"' an d elegant, bespeaking grace
fulness and strength, the color chosen
being a soft olive green, with narrow
gilt ornamental panel lines.
FARM-LABOR UNION ORGANIZES
The meeting of the Farm Labor Un
ion took place at the court house at
9 • r>i l • i i .
p.m., organizer Rnodes m the chair.
there were about 59 people present,
Mr. Rhodes, Mr. Benton and Mr. Thür
man made short addresses to the as
sembly. Mr. Thurman stated that the
„„v.- r .
conditions that at present confront the
rarmer compelled him to take some
steps to better his condition, that the
farmer had allowed things to go on in
almost any direction, and as a con
sequence of that he and his family are
suffering in more ways than one. To
work hard ail the year'and find at its
end that he was no nearer to his am
bition, is the thing that wiil snr.k
,
u C
farmer awaken, whether he will or no.
He reads here and there in the pape s
• * • * - ^ H "
at his command, what the farmers are
doing by organizing in other parts of
the country, and he has at last come
out of his shell and is taking notice..
Mr. Benton made an impressive
speech, citing the example of Oklaho
ma as just one state that had organiz
ed for the purpose of protecting the
farmer from the "farm sharks" who
spent all this waking hours to find how
they can squeeze every spare dollar
they can from the class whom they
have found are the most easily robbed.
You borrow money to put your crop
in, and when you have raised a crop,
you find that you won't have enough
out of it to pay even the interest on
the money you have borrowed; then
the mortgage hits you, as it has hit
millions, until you think that you have
too much land. And all the time you
have worked from 12 to 16 hours a
day—and whom for? That is the ques
tion. And its answer when found will
decide whether you will join this 'body
or not. f
The organization was made perman
ent and the following officers were el
ected: J. J. Cryer of Rosepine, presi
dent; J. W. Mathis of Leesville, vice
pres..
Farm Labor Union, No. 2: J. 0.
Fountain, organizer; L. Eason, con
ductor; Chas.. Davis, doorkeeper; J.
Byrne, chairman, city council commit
tee, J. Russel, Chaplain.
It was decided to defer the election
of executive committee until some fu
ture date. President Cryer made a few
remarks on the conditions of the far
mers in Vernon Parish and made an ur
gent appeal to them to stand together
for all there is in it, because there
no other way out as he could see.
After much discussion it was decided
fo hold the next meeting Saturday,
March 25, at ten o'clock sharp at the
court house.
Under the rulings of the attorney
general, all voters must come to the
court house to be registered.. The reg
istration of voters on the bond issus in
the Sixth Ward will close at 6 p.m.,
April I.
There is no thought in any mind but
it quickly tends to convert itself into
a power.—Emerson. '
FACULTY MEMBERS
ATTEND MEETING
The annual meeting of the southern
agricultural workers held in Atlanta,
Ga., on February 20, 21, and 22 was
a very enthusiastic one anç! gave earn
est consideration to conditions in the
South to-day, according to E. L. Jor
dan, professor of animal industry in
the University. About 300 people en- 1
gaged in teaching and research and
extension work were present from 14
Southern states.
"The consensus of opinion was that
co-operative marketing is very essen
tial to the future agri6ultural success
of th^ South," said Professor Jordan.
That the present methods of the
farmer could be greatly improved was
expressed by the meeting, and means
of accomplishing this end were dis
cussed. The man whose only crop is
«-uaöcu. iiic iiidii wiiuse uiinr
j cotton cannot make a living at present
land the growth of better cotton in re
igard to yield andquajity should be
i encouraged. It was shown that the
! qua ] ity ° f , a [ &T & P art f the coU ° n
produced is belo w the lowest. grade
hand i ed on the cotton ex thange and
brings the farmer practically nothing.
The yield, both per man and per acne,
should be raised and more land devo
ted to stock, hogs, dairy cattle, and
poultry.
Diversification by sections rather
k™ * SeCt '° nS , Tj
tha " by famS Wa " re ' :ommended and
in this way crops could be confined
to sections best adapted for their pro
duction, although each farmer should
» c i . r
I™* ™ T** things needed for
his own home use as possible.
Ninety percent of the meat supplied
by the South is below the competitive
interstate grade, according to statistics
furnished the meeting by Armour and.
Co., and it was suggested that better 1
methods of feeding be employed so as
to raW the standard of livestock in
the South
The co-ordination of the agricultur- j
al courses given in the colleges of the j
South was urged by the meeting before '
it adjourned.. It was pointed out that
this step would bring the various col
lege courses into greater conformity
and mean the saving of considerable
time to the student who changes col
leges before completing his course.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
The happy couples who obtained
marriage licenses at the office of Hon
A. R. Hicks, Clerk of Vernon Parish,
were: Mr. John L. Williams and Miss
Leona Lowell, both of Slagle; Mr.
J- C. Wright and Mrs. Mary Sexton,
^^h of Stables, Mr. Chärles ^X^est, of
and Miss J ane Funderburk,
Mink.
THE STORM FIEND
Vernon Parish is in luck.. That wind
storm that came over us last Monday
evening was the gathering together of
the elements before they made an at
tack, and when they did make one,
they made a good one; but not here.
It waited until it got to Sulphur, Okla.*
and there it sure did some rough work.
It tore a path two blocks wide through
the town, tearing everything to pieces,
as it went on its course. The proper
ty damage is over $100,000 and that
is some amount,for a small town like
Sulphur, Oklahoma..
PARISH FAIR DATE IS SET
FOR OCTOBER 12 TO 14
The Louisiana association of live
stock fairs met at Baton Rouge last
week and set the dates for all the fairs
in the association.
The date set for the Vernon Parish
Fair was Thursday, Friday and Satur
day, October 12, 13, and 14.
The dates for the State Fair at
Shreveport have been set for October
19 to 29, several days earlier than for
merly.
Vernon Parish farmers should set
down the date of their parish fair, and
the state fair, and plan to have some
thing to exhibit there. If Vernon far
mers would show each other what
they can produce in this parish, they
would be doing a wonderful service to
their parish. It would create a feeling
of patriotism of the highest kind, the
desire to build up one's home land.
HE'S SARCASTIC
The Chamber of Commerce of
Shreveport has received a letter from
J. G. Felker of Haynesville,- La., en
quiring whether there would be any
inducements for him to start a factory
for the manufacture of tar and feath
ers ? He seems to be of the opinion
that there is such a demand for these
two articles mentioned that it would
be a good inducement to start a fac
tory at once and turn them out by
wholesale.
Keep your face always toward the
sunshine and then the shadows will
fall behind you.— M. B. Whitman.
There is a necessary limit To our
achievement, but none to our attempt.
—Phillips Brooks
The Junior Colonist
MAXINE GADDIS— EDITOR
Editor, Maxine Gaddis; Reporters,
Margaret Seelye, Max Beavers, Clar
ence Shutt.
WEEK'S WORK OF THE LLANO
SCHOOL CHILDREN
Margaret Seelye gave violin lessons.
She now has eleven pupils. Laura
Synoground, J. T. Green, Kenneth
Thurman and Truman Benthall (who
brought in a violin with him) are new
pupils.
Clarence Shutt, Victor Gaddis and
Maxine Gaddis worked at the print
shop. Also Albert Kapotsy and Ar
thur Montrose worked there during the
àfternoons this week.
John Dougherty watered the chick
ens. . %
Bennett Babb has charge of the Jun
iors, and they work wherever they are
needed. They have been working to
get our cafeteria started.
Nellie Kemp and Mable Synoground
worked at the kindergarten, helping
Myrtle with the kiddoos.
Mildred Seelye, lErma and Helen
Jjgde now have charge of. the candy
kitchen during Mrs. Shutt's absence.
We are looking forward to some good
candy.
Beulalî Gaddis, Louise Belohradsky
and Rosa Matz worked at the office,
as usual.
Nellie Kemp, Vinita Thurman, Ruby
Synoground, Maxine and Victor Gad
dis, Laura Merrill and Bennett Babb
worked at the hotel waiting on tables
and drying silverware.
* ¥ * *
.. v , , , , . ,
1 Mr. Kapotsy has completéd the job
of fl , ttm 8 f the P'P e , for ™ nnmg the , wa "
ter down from the hotel to our cafeter
la ' a ' so " ot water pipes and tank
j have been conn ^ £ ith the stove "
j - , , . . ,
' had a very interesting lesson last
Wednesday in writing-music. We were
g,ven a and told to wnte * lun< :
ffl 8 .*• We Were a11 very lnterested
and there were some real good tunes
written by the high school pupils. Mr.
Martin, our instructor, seemed well
pleased with our efforts. We are all
looking forward to our next lesson with
much pleasure.
—Margaret Seelye.
* * * *
Mrs. Martin has her hands full çgain.
All her absent pupils have returned to
YOU Read
The American Co-operator
MARCH NUMBER NOW IN MAIL
This fine monthly magazine is becoming one of the best all-around co-operative
monthlies in this country. It carries original stories about various co-operative enter
prises, and points out their successful formulas.
It also carries many novel articles on new ideas on therapeutics, on the money ques
tion, and on the progressive fraternal order, the Universal Co-operative Brotherhood,
for which organization "TBS AMERICAN CO-OPERATOR" is the official organ.
The Llano Colony is the most interesting community in the world to-day, and "The
Afnerican Co-operator" carries regularly something new about Llano.
Job Harriman's Editorials are well worth the price of the year's subscription, for
they are far-seeing, thought-provoking, and always new.
You can learn Esperanto through the Easy Lessons printed in The American Co
operator and written by Howard Buck.
Theo. F. Cuno, a veteran radical newspaper writer, gives two pages of comment
on the latest thought in current reading, throwing the spotlight of years of experience
onto the sayings of men of to-day.
Many othîr special articles are printed each month.
You bught to keep in touch with this line of thought. The writers in "The Am
erican Co-operator" write without fear of editorial displeasure; they speak their minds.
It is free thought.
CONTENTS OF THE MARCH NUMBER
THE PACIFIC CO-OPERATIVE
„LEAGUE IN RECEIVERS' HANDS
TO PROTECT MEMBERS.
THE SPIRIT OF REVOLUTIQN
Alanson Sessions.
-By
WE, OF NEWLLANO—By Theo F.
Cuno.
THE FAILURE OF CO-OPERATORS
TO CO-OPERATE—By Job Harri
•IS DEATH NECESSARY?"—By Dr.
John DeQuer.
JOB HARRIMAN'S EDITORIALS.
DOINGS OF THE MONTH AT
LLANO—By Frank H. Newman.
EASY LESSONS IN ESPERANTO;
AND CURRENT NOTES—By How
ard L. Buck.
UNIVERSAL CO-OPERATIVE BRO.
THERHOOD LOGICAL FRUIT OF
PROPAGANDA — By Ernest S.
Wooster.
OPEN LETTER TO W. R. ATKINSON
—By H. E. Branch.
The American Co-operator is only One Dollar for a year. May we send it to you?
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Llano Colony
Leesville, Louisiana
school again, after a period of illness.
Katherine Cantrell and Freddie
Tackett were the last ones to recover
and return.
1- % % *
Mr. Messenger has given the Junior
Orchestra the use of a fine violin and
a ; mandoiin-banjo. We thank him very
much.
A fine time was had by all last Sun
day, March 12th, when the "Glad U
Kum Club" had their first picnic. We
left the school house about 10:30 a
m. and went to the swimming pool and
spent the rest of the day there. In
the morning we had our fun ; some go
ing in swimming and also fixing up
for dinnet, We had dinner about I : -
30 p.m. and I don't think anyone can
complain about the dinner. After d : n
ner the sports began. We had three
legged race, wheel-barrow race, sum
mer-set race, and had running races
for the girls. The winners were:
fhree-legged race, Bill Beavers and
Walter Langridge; wheel-barrow race,
ß^nnett ßäbb and Vernon Boyce; sum
mer-set race, Bennett Babb. Of the
girls' race, Maxine Gaddis. Also we
had running broad jump, 'and stand
ing broad jump. Robert Lindsey won
standing broad jump. Bennett Babb
won running broad jump; A little la
ter we had a boxing match between
Clifford and Mable Synoground. He
must be in the hospital this morning
from the way he was beaten. That
ended the program for the day, except
for the swimming which everybody en
joyed.—Max Beavers.
¥ ¥ * *
The swimming pool is getting very
popular nowadays. On Sunday all the
kids are out there. And say! You
ought to see some of them dive and
swim! They can even beat the ducks !
¥ * ¥ v
We now have a new boy in our
school, whosç name is Clifford West.
He is fourteen and he drove a tractor
over five miles of Louisiana roads.
Now when a boy does that at this time
of the year, he is some boy. When
I asked him how the roads were, he
said they are decidedly bad. He also
said they only got stuck five times and
had to pull out two cars. We are all
very glad to have Clifford for a school
mate.
i '. »»l l 'llli Ml I i ii i l M l
I SPINELESS UNIONISM CAUSED
"OPEN SHOP" MOVE
(By The Federated' Pre»»)
Chicago. •'— "The Trade Union Ed
ucational league program is quite sim
ple," said William Z. Foster, secretary.
"It aims at giving the organized work
ers the strongest possible unions and
the most militant fighting spirit. The
league is entirely out of harmony with
the conservatism that has hitherto
characterized the American trade un
ion movement. Our trade unions have
striven hard to be respectable, in the
hope that in this manner they would
win some favor or consideration from
the employing class. As a result, they
have not only spurned radical ideas,
but have also failed to adopt modern
structures. But their hope has been
frustrated. Although they are the most
conservative labor movement in the
world, they have less standing and are
more bitterly fought than the trade un
ions in any other important country.
SELF-GOVERNMENT FOR EGYPT
SIMPLY CAMOUFLAGED
BRITISH IMPERIALISM
(By The Federated Pres»)
London. — Lord Allenby's plan for
the government of Egypt is sure to
prove unacceptable to the Egyptians,
Daily Herald diplomatic correspondent
déclarés, for it is based on the retention
inEgypt of the British army of occupa
tion, and of British officials overseeing
and dictating the policy of the Egyp
tian government. The formal aboli
tion of the British protectorate does
not mean anything when it is coupled
with the actual maintenance of Brit
ish rule.
A telegram from Mansourah, which
is characteristic, reads: "We assure the
British government that any agreement
meet with utter failure."
The school is growing so large that
we will have to have a new school
house this summer, "there are new
pupils coming in all the time.
—Margaret Seelye.
* * * *
We had a large crowd at the hotel
to-day and could not seat them all at
:e. We thought at first that we
weren't going to get thru, but all of a
sudden eight thoughtful school kids
came to our rescue, and we got thru
quicker than usual. Many thanks to
you, schoolmates.—M(ixine Gaddis.