The Llano Colonist
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEESVILLE. LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Entered as second-class matter, May 14, 1921, at the postoffice at
Leesville, La., under act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS: Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tions regarding the publications to The Llano Publications, Leesville, La.
Tras will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name as it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER— Editor.
The Federal Statistics show that the
cost of living in the United States is
now from 26 to 31 per cent higher than
it was in 1913. What about the wag
es? They have gone so high that they
can't be found anywhere!
The British Co-operative Wholesale
Society is reported to have taken over
an entire coal mine, the Shiibottle Col
liery, to secure coal at labor cost for
the 4,500,000 families now supplied by
its retail stores, and there can be no
question but that the British co-opera
tors will make a big success of the
venture. It may be news to many Am
ericans that co-operative coal-mining
has been previously carried on success
fully in the United States, notably in
the State of Kansas at Osage City.
Twenty-five years ago, organized as a
voluntary Labor Exchange, they car
ried on operations successfully for a
number of years. I visited them on
Labor Day in 1898 and was one of the
speakers at the celebration of that day,
and what I saw, and what they told me,
showed these workers fully competent
to successfully operate an industry
with which they are familiar. And
what more than anything else delighted
me was the fact that men from practi
cally all the different nationalities of
Europe and natives of America could
work together harmoniously in co-op
eration.
"Co-operative coal mining is also
carried on to-day in this country. The
entire town of Himlerville, W. Va., at
tests the success of the Hibler Co-op
erative Coal Company, owned by 1400
miners, who also own the local bank,
a co-operative weekly paper, and an
electric power station to supply their
homes with light at cost. In the Tug
River district of Kentucky the workers
have organized the Nebo American
Coal Company, with a capital of $240,
000 supplied co-operatively by the min
ers themselves. The United Mine Work
ers'' Co-operative Store at Boonville,
Indiana, owns its own co-operative coal
mine; and a co-operative mine at Dug
ger in the same state has a production
of over three hundred tons a day.
'There can be no peace in the coal
industry so long %s greed for profits
and not service is the aim of the men
who control it. It is an economic and
social crime in this twentieth century
for the men who do the hazardous,
heavy work of mining the coal that
keeps us warm and turns the wheels
of industry, to be compelled to strike
in order to secure a living wage and a
fair condition of labor. There is only
one way to end this crime, and that is
by co-operative ownership and control
of the nation's coal resources for the
benefit of all instead of a privileged
few."
Pity those who have lived without
lovjng.—Arsene Houssaye.
Let Us Do Your
Quick
Printing
Service
Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesville, La.
President Lincoln abolished chattle
slavery, but established wage slavery
for both white and black by delegating
to private banks the privilege of con
trolling money and credit and charg
ing interest for it use (7% or more
per annum to the bank and 3% to the
Government to pay the bank's interest
on the bonds that secure the bank
notes).
Money at 10% per annum com
pounded quarterly, doubles in seven
years; thus $100 in 7 years calls for
$200; in 14 years, for $400; in 21
years, for $800; and in 28 years, for
$1,600 in payment, although money
does not increase itself, is dead, inert,
whether paper or metal. Yet, interest
increases the debtor's obligation to pay
money which does not exist, a natural
impossibility, and ruins them financial
ly because of inability to porform an
mpossibility.,
Fifty years later the Industrial Com
mission reported that "the rich two per
cent of the people owned 60 per cent
of the wealth." In 1922 it is reason
able to estimate that the rich two per
cent of the people hold interest earn
ing securities or claims against the peo
ple equalling or exceeding the total
wealth of the United States. And they
show no desire to put their thieving
money into productive or commercial
channels, but seem to be obsessed with
a mania to invest only in non-taxable
securities, to escape paying any share
of the public expense.
Twelve of the 113 war-time prison
ers in America are British-born. Rich
ard Brazier was a metal worker in Bir
mingham; Joe Aates was a miner at
Cleator Moor; Ted Frazer hails from
Manchester; Sam Scarlett was a mem
ber of the old Amalgamated Society
of Engineers in Glasgow. Others of
English origin are Charles Lambert,
Bert Lorton, J. A. Macdonald, Don
Sheridan, Frederick Esmond, Harry
Lloyd, Herbert Hahler, and William
Moran.
Thousands of leaflets summing up
the plight of the politicals in the Un
ited States are being circulated by the
Class War Prisoners' Release Commit
tee here.
"Brutal persecution still continues in
America against workers active in de
fending the interests of their class,"
declares the committee in these leaf
lets.
The pecan saved the day for the
farmers of Louisiana. It is estimated
that approximately $8,000,000 worth
of pecans were sold from the native
trees which grow wild on the alluvial
land over the state.
It is impossible to improve men with
out showing them up as they are.
BY THE WAY
The contest between the fly and the
swatter now begins. The swatter has
flys rush in where angels soon will
tread.
* * * *
Sheep men in North Carolina have
developed a plan to send their wool di
rect to the woolen mills, which has
proven satisfactory to the grower and
the manufacturer.
* * # *
Mrs. Härtung sobbed her story while
she held her baby close to her breast
in a Chicago court where her husband
was held for burglary. "My husband
was out of work; we had spent all our
earnings, and were hungry. We appeal
ed to relatives but got no help; and
fearing that our baby would starve, we
put the baby in the carriage and I
watched outside the homes while my
husband went in and rifled the ice box
es for food." Her story was verified by
the police who stated that the home
which he had entered were not molest
ed, excepting the food that was stored
in the ice boxes. "Six months in jail.
Next!
How the law can be twisted and un
twisted to suit, was demonstrated
New Orleans last week. The City had
entered into a contract with the street
railway for the use of its street for a
stated term of years anl at a stated
price. The agreement was entered in'
to between the City and the street rail
way company, that no charge for pas
senger rates should ever be more than
five cents per mile. Now the courts
have decided that the City was all
wrong; that it had no right to tell the
street railway company the price of a
fare about the City streets. The courts
decides that, although the City is
"rate-making body," still the city can
not make rates. Beat that if you can.
Mister Reader!
* # » »
"I want a good book, some knitting,
a rocking chair, and a house full of
children," said Mrs. Leonora Medeora,
a woman lawyer of Chicago, who has
been in politics for the past ten years,
and was public welfare commissioner
under Mayor Harrison of that city.
"For the glamor of public life I gave
up my home, my husband and my chil
dren," she said. "It doesn't pay. I
am going to abandon this life and take
my god-given place within the family
circle. Perhaps I am a bit old-fashion
ed; but I am going to quit the law
and the practice of politics that goes
with it, and go home and bake apple
pies for the kiddies. To hear them say
'Come home, mamma, won't you," is
teaching me that I am not, nor have
been, doing my duty to these babes of
mine. So farewell to public life." were
her parting remarks.
w * * *
There is a religious war in Ireland.
The North and the South hate each
other with an intensity that defies de
scription, and nothing seems to appease
the hatred that has been engendered
there. This comes from a systematic
campaign began centuries ago by in
terests now long since obsolete—but it
pays some people to keep such a thing
going. And you will always find the
man who will tell you that the other
fellow is no good for tihs or that rea
son; because his ancestors many years
ago shot your ancestors, or some oth
er foolish nonsense that should have
been forgotten long ago, if we humans
are to live with each other on this
planet in peace with each other. Watch
out for the man who will set your mind
against some other man for personal
Who has not heard of the "million
aire Hobo" or tramp? Few have be
lieved that such a person ever existed,
yet here we have the statement of Mrs.
Graham Duffield of Chicago, who had
come to New York finally to see if she
could not locate her 18-year-old son,
who had decamped from a private
school some six months ago, and had
not been heard from since. She em
ployed the best detectives that Chica
go had and they soon located her boy
slinging hash in a cheap Bowery hash
house, where he got $10 a week and
board for his services. When pressed
to go home with his mother, he declin
ed until she informed him that he was
a millionaire in his own right, and
would come into full possession of his
wealth in tliree years. Then he gave
in and went home in a special train.
The boy had on the crudest kind of
overalls when found, and stated that
he had gone to sleep many a night
hungry. He told some of the most
startling tales of his adventures among
the down and outs, and declared that
when he came into the possession of
his thirteen millions he would use it
to alleviate the wrongs that the down
and outs now suffer from in all parts
of the country.
* » * »
According to the latest statistics from
the different countries in Europe: Eng
land has 2,300,000 out of work. Ire
land's industires are idle from internal
strife. France has 1,000,000 unem
ployed, and another million at work in
reconstruction at starvation wages.
Austria only needs the preacher to say
the U, few words ,o - he, Uk -
an industrial nation. The Scandinave
ian countries can no longer run the in
dustries of the separate nations that
constitute Scandinavia for the want of
consumers for her products. Germany
is working with a vim to supply all that
will buy the goods that she will sell for
any price, and as a consequence of this
the German is to-day getting less of the
good things of life in return for the
energy expended than any other nation
on earth. Italy is trying to borrow
money to sustain the life of the nation.
Bread! bread! is the cry heard on the
streets. Portugal and Spain are over
run with poverty and unemployment.
The soldiers must keep order with the
bayonet on the public street.
And we wonder why ! It is the same
old world as ever; there are as many
people with hungry mouths as former
ly; they all need to be fed and clothed.
And, notwithstanding the immense loss
of human life during the war, there
are to-day more people in the world
than there were before the war. Do
you know what is wrong with this old
world of ours? Better get wise, ask
questions, then dissect the questions un
til you find the solution to the great
problem. Every one has some idea ex
cept you; now it is your turn to settle
the question with yourself.
*
* *
After four years of determination, I
combined with pluck, the Peruvian
government and American doctors have
ridden Peru of that monster, yellow fe
"It was a tçst of human endurance
and intelligence against ignorance and
opposition, and we won," said Dr. Hen
ry Hanson. "Our chief obstacle was
the ignorance on the part of the public.
In one town the whole population rose
against us because we closed the
churches. Nothing could have made
a sane people more angry; the town
was doomed; yellow fever was all
around ; people were dying by the hun
dreds daily; they went to church every
day to pray for the recovery of some
member of their family, and unconsci
ously spread the disease. To tell them
this simple fact was like putting out
a flame with oil. They mobbed our
office, attempted to kill our director,
and we had to escape through a hole
made in the roof of the building. We
were eventually compelled to withdraw
from that place because of the bitter
ness of the inhabitants, and left them
to the mercy of the Creator. After
wards the town was entirely wiped out
by the scourge. The outside world will
little realize the immensity of the work
;arried to perfection against all kinc.
0 f odds until we brought the country
back to health. The inhabitants were
dying by the thousands, and no matter
what efforts we made to appease their
sufferings, there was the same opposi
tion shown until we appealed to the
Peruvian Government who sent soldiers
down to quell the aggressiveness of the
people. But the grand work is done
and yellow fever is no more in Peru.
The four years spent there has added
twenty years to my life. Saving an ig
norant mob from themselves is An un
enviable task and is unconceivable to
the ordinary individual," was the state
ment given by Dr. Hanson.
This is not serious, biit merely inter
esting, or amusing.
Some years ago, Ole Hansen, of Se
attle, won sporadic fame by crushing
in a spectacular manner a general
strike.
Patter on the back by Capital, Ole
known by the red-eared strikers as
"Holy Ole," lectured over the country
to explain how he did it. He became
the pampered pet of parlor and other
capitalists.
Seattle became to small for Ole, who
aspired for presidential honors. At
least he was accused of it. His force
ful methods, and high-pressure self-ad
vertising seemed to point out Holy Ole
as the ideal man for the place.
, Then the bright lights of Los An
geles claimed Holy Ole and his high
ideals af crushing the working class
were absorbed by the higher capitalis
tic ideal of making money.
Meanwhile, the holy one wrote a
book, "Americanism or Bolshevism."
Having observed Bolshevism from the
vantage point of Seattle splendidly fit
ted Hansen to handle the subject. ' In
one of the second hand book stores of
Los Angeles there is a huge pile of
Holy Ole's masterly literary effort.
Now, however, the master of Seattle
is selling real estate out on Slausen Ave
nue.
And here's the strange, strange
thing.
Red flags are flying on the tracts,
bearing the caption, "Ole Hansen."
The use of the red flag by the holy
one is at least surprising.
Emma Goldman, shipped to Russia
against her will when deported from
the United States, has studied the land
of the soviets with care and is now
telling, through the Hearst press and
other papers, how horrible it is. It is
only fair to mention that the Hearst
press states that it takes no responsibil
ity for the truth of the articles, but
merely for their authenticity.
Emma Goldman, agitator for many
years, finds Russia a land where pov
Then she shows a few trivial instances
to prove her case.
Emma complains of the processes of
government, and the centralization of
power. She makes accusations of bu
reaucracy,
There is something reminicently fa
miliar about the tone of her writings.
Familiar to any one who has partici
pated in any co-operative movement,
or in any effort to improve the lot of
the people.
It is to be feared that the vehement
Emma is more deeply enamored of her
own peculiar propaganda than she is
of the desire to help the multitudes.
Possibly the authorities of Russia did
not ask her advice. It may be that she
was not a welcome guest, but merely
a tolerated one.
At any rate, believers in any of the
principles of the Co-operative Common
wealth, and spokesmen for groups most
of all, should refrain from leveling the
finger of scorn and using the capitalis
tic press to discredit the efforts of com
rades in the face of overwhelming
odds.
Those who have viewed Emma as a
somewhat fanatic propagandist with
whom they might not agree, but for
whom they have - at least held some
measure of respect, are likely to feel
I disappointed to find that she is not
above abusing her comrades, and to
aid and abet the capitalistic nations, of
the world in their brutal campaign
against struggling, starving Russia.
Emma Goldman can justly be accus
ed of having turned her back on the
masses. She is now being used as a
tool of capitalism.
Emma, the super-red, shades to pink,
then changes and becomes black.
Fortunately, her power is not great.
The Genoa conference is about to
convene, anl the Russian delegates to
that convention have arrived in the
dead hour of the night. They are
guarded by the local military to pre
vent attacks by fanatics. This conven
tion attracts the attention of the world
because on its success depends the fu
ture of the world for the next ten years.
L. Krassine the Russian representative
to the convention, says: "France is
most insistent of all nations that we
restore "private property' in Russia.
She intends to demand that we restore
all confiscated lands to their former
owners, irrespective of and from the
fact that the land owners of Russia
comprised but one tenth of the whole
people. To that demand there is but
one answer. France, during her revo
lution, confiscated the lands of the rul
ing classes, and France, after the revo
lution, did not restore them.
"We in Russia have done what
France did 150 years ago. France
was condemned then as we are now,
but no one will dare deny that the re
distribution of the confiscated lands
among the peacants of France has
made France the richest country per
capita in the world. What France has
done for her children we can do. We,
too, hold the great ambition to be the
richest country per capita in all the
world. All we ask is for France to
attend to her own business and not
meddle in ours. How would you Am
ericans like it if France or any other
country came to your home land and
demanded that you make and unmake
laws to please the Frenchmen at the ex
pense of your own countrymen? Ask
yourself that question and you will get
a true outline on what the Genoa con
ference is all about.
FARMER-LABOR PARTY
VICTORIOUS IN IOWA
(By The Federated Press)
Clinton, la. —The Farmer-Labor
party re-elected H. W. Cowles as may
or by a majority of 300 votes, and won
three out of the nine members of the
city council. Cowles made his run
against a Republican, the Democrats
fusing with the Republicans and fail
ing to place a candidate in the field
in a futile effort to defeat Cowles.
WISCONSIN STATE CAPITAL
OPEN FOR FREE SPEECH
(By The Federated Press)
Madison, Wis. — Freedom of speech
won a victory in Wisconsin when Gov
ernor John J. Blaine decided to allow
Mrs. Kate Richards O'Hare, jailed 14
month during the war as a political
prisoner, to speak in tht assembly
chamber of the capitol, despite the pro
test of the American Legion.
Mrs. O'Hare is being brought to
Madison by the Social Science club of
the university, which secured the as
sembly room without attempting to ob
tain a university hall, in view of the
attitude of the university authorities
toward certain liberal and radical
speakers.
NO STRIKE-BREAKERS WANTED
(By The Federated Press)
Seattle.—This city has 8,000 unem
ployed, and needs no 300 strikebreak
ers to take the places of men striking
at the Renton car shops, was the word
flashed to Portland from here to fore
stall scab herding in that city recently
COAL MINE OPERATORS
DISREGARD LAWS
(By The Federated Press)
Pittsburg. — Following the southern-;
Ohio coal operators in their attempt
to disrupt the United Mine Workers
of America, the Pittsburgh district op
erators, who have violated their con
tract by refusing to meet the miners
international officers in conference»,,
have now made an offer of a separate
agreement with the miners in their dis
trict. This announcement follows re
ports from Washington that President
Harding and Secretary of Labor Davis,
will make no further attempt to in
duce the operators to live up to their
contract with the miners.
WISCONSIN GOVERNOR
PROTECTS FREE SPEECH
(By The Federated Press)
Madison, Wis. — With Adj-Gen.
Alonzo Holway in the chair, quelling;
an outburst at the beginning, the Kat&
Richards O'Hare lecture in the States
capitol, against which members of the
American Legion had made threats,,
was listered to without further interrup
tion by an overflow audience.
A protest meeting by the legion the
night before broke into disorder when
an ex-service man attempted to de
fend the Social Science club of the
University of Wisconsin, of whifeh he
was a member and which had invited
Mrs. O'Hare to speak. Legionaires ob
jected to Mrs. O'Hare because of her
conviction as a war-time policical pris
oner.
Governor Blaine was unmoved by
the Legion protests, refusing to bar the
Social Science club meeting froih the
capitol, which had been engaged be
cause the university authorities are too*
reactionary to ^permit cerain liberal:
speakers on the campus.
A PLUTOCRATIC CONSPIRACY
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago. — A small group of pow
erful corporations to-day control the
jobs of nearly all American workers
and fix the pay rolls of American in
dustry. These interests control the
prices of basic materials to such an ex
tent that they can lock out customers
Thus they can strangle industry either
by maintaining prices which are entire
ly out of proportion to the level of
wages, or by cutting the spending pow
er of labor as a consumer tjirough big
reductions in pay rolls.
B. M. Jewell, president, railway em
ployes' department, A. F. of L., offer
ed statistics to establish the above facts
in his argument before the United Stat
Subscription Rates: s 'The Llano
Colonist" weekly, for one year, ; $1.50;
Canada, $2.00; Other foreign coun
tries. $2.50..
Classified Section
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles to town; 1 mile to
school. About 40 acres wood; 30
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grass;
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00).
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance in
cash. Will take Llano stock up to
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S.
care Llano Colonist 147
WILL TRADE FOR COLONY
STOCK—40 acres of bottom land,
mostly under cultivation, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.— H. A.
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
12 acres cleared and under cultivation..
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;'
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
terraced. Price, $1100. Main road.
A. E. WELDON, Rte I. Box 63, Lees
ville, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber onbal
ance; good house; two tenant houses,
$10,500 for all. — See G. T. Pickett,
Lano Colony. 3g
FOR SALE—102 acres; 32 acres,
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 bams.
Price $5,000. Close to Colony hotel.
See Ueorge T. Pickett. 39
™ acres near Picker
ing; 3U acres m cultivation; good tim
ber on the balance; hummock and
black land; good six room house with
Sm Ck c oP, aces; a bargain at
$4500.—See Pickett Llano Colony."32
F0R SALE—55-acre farm near Pick
ering; 45 acres cleared of, stumps,
welWenced and cultivated; family or
chard of mixed fruits; two good hous
$3 3M % r the T r PHce
$3,300. See G. T. Pickett, 1 Llano