Plant Them Now!
Australian
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way as egg-plant
Mach resembles the latter-—except
that by many colonists it is<
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
«allure with sach packet of seeds.
" The colonist who introduced Aus
tralian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW!
Prise—50c ftfr packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
Erie Labor Press
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50.
Trial Subscription—10 weeks, 25c.
The Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
'Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY—
;
(Do You Want Her?) j
"A Girl That's Different" is a re-j
print of a playlet written and played j
by Llano colonists. .
It contrasts the new girl, as exem-!
A FREE EARTH-The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQUITIST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash.
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Fre*.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
Meanderings
By Robert K. Williams, D. C., Ph. C.
Voliva, oveifseer of the Zion colony
across the lake from Chicago, is fine
"copy." He keeps himself and his in
terests constantly in the public print.
He has invented "painless dentistry."
While the dentist is* extracting the
tooth, at the crucial moment, he jabs
a pin in he leg of the sufferer and in
stantly the victim forgets his tooth and
rubs his leg.
The power of suggestion is beyond
understanding. The mountain coming
to Mahomet may easily be understood
if the power of realization is suffi
ciently developed. The moment, one
realizes a thing, that moment the ob
ject becomes a reality. They say, "you
are well." It is repeated often. When
the time comes that realization becom- j
es a fact, then the body is well. Can't I
be otherwise. The fanatic is corre-1
spondingly dangerous for the reason
he realizes his thoughts and knows that
they are true. He acts on knowledge
which to him is true.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
We do only the things we want to.
Couldn't do anything else. Little Babb
driving us through Louisiana late at
night, took the wrong road and halted
at the edge of a swamp. He said: "I
thought I was right." Job Harriman
said: "Of course you did, Babb; you
would not have taken the wrong road
otherwise." A philosophy summed up
in this.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The hypnotist says, and you say af
ter him: "I can't open my hands; I
can't open my hands"—and you can't
because you don't want to.
* * * is
The entombed dead of the great
Woodlawn cemetery are noisily dissol
ving into the primal elements in hous
es fit to house the greatest monarch
of earth. Noisily! Yes, had you the
ear of the microphone the breaking up
of the tissues, the explosions of gas, the
burning and dying of animals feasting
on the helpless flesh, would make you
think that a cataclysm was taking
pl ace
's ¥ ¥ ¥
of the Fear thoughts of those behind t
and the spirit of competition control
ling life in trade.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
One man had his name graven deep
on granite, and M. D. followed it. The
thought was raised whether he expect
ed that his profession would be a part
of him when he got into the beyond.
They say that there is no sickness or
death there. Useless vanity, but van
ity after all. He was proud of his pro
fession..
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Four people stood at the foot of a
grave and tears coursed down their
cheeks. The newly-turned sod gave
evidence that a loved one had passed.
What were they crying for? Their
loss. We are selfish in our joys as
well as in our sorrows. Do we mourn
for the departed or for something tak
en out of our lives? It is a selfish de
sire to keep a joy. The desire for hap
piness is wound up in the feeling of
sorrow.
¥ ¥ * ¥
When a loved one leaves us we
grieve for ourselves, not for them.
Soon that grief passes and another in
terest takes its place. Time is a great
destroyer. One of the best things that
Time does is to smooth out the jagged
edges of grief.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Evidences of belief in immortality
abound everywhere in this palacial city
of the dead. It will continue "as long
as the lips of love kiss the lips of
death." It doubtless will take an entire
ly different form from that of our con
ception. The conception is limited to
the limits of our imaginations. We
fashion our gods and angels after the
images we know. We cannot go be
yond the imagination. The Wisdom
that controls the Universe and the souls
of men very likely has a different role
for the departed to play from what we
imagine.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Death does not stop the struggle for
; human supremacy. The offspring of
j the buried dead raise monuments one
after the other, each striving to show
uniqueness and distinction, represent
j ing honor, greater than that of his
. neighbor. Here is a shaft of granite
forty feet high; twenty feet away is
another fifty feet high, with carvings;
a few feet farther on another 75 feet,
rising out of a granite base carved with
exploits of the departed. Strife, com
petition, vanity, superstition every
where!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Cyrus the Great, entombed in a gi
ant mountain, 3500 years ago, the face
of the rock for a quarter of a mile
carved with a record of his exploits!
In Woodlawn we read "Member of the
Zouaves '61, battled on the heights
and overcame." Overcame what?
what was victory for one was defeat of
another? And we are all the children
of God. The Allied nations prayed to
God thru field representatives known
as chaplains for victory over Germany ;
Germany prayed to heaven for victory!
* ¥ ¥ ¥
The god of battle was prayed to in
ancient time for victory, and the fallen
monarchs ascended to an ambrosial
heaven because their gods had been
assuaged; the other monarch, fallen,
pierced by the javelin of the other mon
arch, went to a similar heaven because
his gods had been propitiated. And
the cause of it all, a piece of land, a
gold-filled temple, or a producing peo
ple! But those were barbarians.
Surely!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Woodlawn cemetery is a colossal col
[ ection tombs bones anl decaying
human flesh. The sanitary-minded
P erson walking thru and observing the
ven ' ; s _ thru which noxious gasses are
'escaping to the air, says the dead will
be the death of those living. The ghat
in India seems cruel, because we are
unused to it. We have refined it and
the body is rolled into a furnace of
living fire. Ashes in a moment—a jar
holding a handful of bone dust, calci
um, lime, takes its place in the long
line. When Fear of fire is removed
thru understanding, there will be more
incindierators built. However* we must
not forget the tomb maker, the casket
maker, and the death trappings maker
must live!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The great cemetery, built on a great
rock, sinks into insignificance when the
Great Wall of China is brought to mind.
Over mountain and valley for 3500
miles it winds, and a thousand bodies
to the mile are buried in it. There
were no ceremonies at the burial. They
were worn out and useless workmen
and were buried on the job. Their
monument has stood for a thousand
centuries.
* * *
The disposition of the dead is a ser
ious problem. The graves of the early
Chinese interfere with agriculture in
, at impoverished land. Land that
should be cultivated is covered by mil
lions of piles of earth ; only cultiva
t [ on between the graves is allowed by
, e s P* r ^ s « A few paper prayers ,on
the wheel of fate, handed out by a seer
to grieving relatives has held back the
advancement of that race.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Right at the head of Wall Street
stands an old church ; it covers a block.
A little further on is a grave yard and
stones indicate that early New York
settlers lived there and died in 1812,
1796 and even before that. They had
names; half of them have vanished
through the erosion of the stone. Those
churches and grave yards in the midst
of the most expensive city of the world
keep back progress. China hasn't so.
much on modern New York. In China
they are superstitious; in New York
they are sentimental.
if, tf, 9$
After all change comes slowly. All
about us are replicas of the ancient.
People of to-day are very much as they
were five and ten and twenty thousand
years ago. Environment has changed,
that's all. Rocks and soil change more
readily than the thoughts of men. Men
are imitating the things of the past, and
the first anthropoid ape hanging by his
tail and steadyiny himself by a pre
hensile thumb made love to his furry->
coated companion in much the same
way as the moderen flapper is enter
tained by the ribbon-counter salesman
of modern New York.
PATRIOTIC (?) PERSECUTION
UNIVERSALLY ABHORRED
(By The Federated Press)
London. — British workers have be
gun to voice their indignation against
the continued imprisonment in America
of men sentenced for war-time opin
ions. They are asking why in letters^
to the General Council of Trade un
ions; the British Labor party; the Brit
ish foreign office; the American am
bassador; and to President Harding.
Agitation for the American politicals
is gathering momentum in all the big
industrial centers here—Birmingham,
Manchester, Liverpool, Southampton,
Sheffield, Leeds, Hull, Cardiff, Glas
gow, Edinburgh.
WAGES BUY LESS NOW
THAN THIRTY YEAIS AGO
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago. — "Deflation" of railway
employes' wages is unwarranted arid
unjust because the rail and other work
ers of America never received "inflat
ed" wages, according to data submit
ted to the United States railway labor
board by B. M. Jewell, president, rail
way employes' department, A. F. of L.,
as a part of the shop crafts' argument
for an increase in wages.
Economists retained by the employ
ees to make a thorough study of in
flation and deflation have established
the fact that the only marked effect
of these processes on wages is a weak
ening of the bargaining power of labor
during the deflation period.
What Is a
Co-operative
Farm?
The Llano Co-operative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS? ,
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY ?
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type of co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co -operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attractive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery. tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as broom corn, peanuts, or other produce
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education of his children, the co-operative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
the child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is that some co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get onto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In this section, a very small acreage, is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries and farms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—IF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want to live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If, you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-operative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colony.
$15.00 an Acre
It is said that a man and his family can live on five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel — board and
Llano ^ ERl oerative Colony
eesville c i ty hts^o- - Louisiana
jäs no 300 st?,
places of mer;
car shops, was t
Atland from here w
ding in that city r?