Co-operation and
Actual Brotherhood
Comrade George D. Coleman, speak
ing at the psychological meeting at
Newllano on Thursday evening, March
30, made the statement, that co-opera
tion is actual religion, practical reli
gion. It involves the application of
the golden rule, the principle of bro
therhod. This principle is mutual in
character, and it requires reciprocity
from everyone who wishes to enjoy the
advantages of co-operation and bro
therhood. No one can claim special
privileges where brotherhood prevails,
and it is silly gush and entirely out of
place, to ask exemption from the labor
involved. To "love thy neighbor as
thyself" does not signify by a long
shot that anyone should love anybody
else better than one's self, and that
anyone should work for others who de
cline to reciprocate. No one can de
mand the prizes of co-operation and
brotherhood who will not observe the
rules of the game, practice reciprocity,
and evince the spirit of friendship.
Co-operation and brotherhood mean
working together and for one another.
This has been stated again and again
in the pamphlets and publications print
ed and sent abroad by the Llano Col
ony. The Colony is not in a position
to take in people who are unable to,
do anything useful in promoting the
work and objects of the community. I
Anyone having obligations in the out
side world which he considers para
mount over the implied duties to be
assumed at the Colony, should not
come and expect to become a burden
upon the co-operative pioneering
group.
To provide food, clothing, shelter,
entertainment, education and recrea
tion for hundreds of people requires
work, first, last, and all the time. No
other honest way has yet been dis
covered to provide these indispensable
requisites of human existence; and
until such a way is found, every one
will have to buckle down to do some
kind of useful work that the Colony
can now provide, and which will assist
in achieving the goal.
For ages the workers have struggled
to escape from the snares of the ex
ploiter. But all in vain. They have
looked to all kinds of leaders and sav
iors for deliverance. To labor union
leaders, to politicians—but all in vain
and without any success worth while.
Co-operation also has been tried to
a limited extent, but failed to measure
up to the expectations of the pioneers
because the people apparently have
lacked the understanding needed to
treat each other with the ordinary
courtesy and forbearance to make their
intercourse pleasant and agreeable.
Unless co-operation and association is
congenial and yields satisfactory re
sults, it cannot be maintained and per
petuated for any length of time.
Friendliness of spirit is one of the
important bases on which co-operation
depends. "Love thy neighbor as thy
self" demands a certain disposition
and attitude on the part of every
would-be co-operator. This» is a very
important point that advocates of ec
onomic betterment have overlooked.
Their attention has been riveted on the
outside, on the environment, the ma
terial things, the so-called opportunities
—while the actual obstacle to improve
ment in human affairs is located with
in, consisting in wrong ideas and wrong
emotions. And if any improvement is
to be effected, the beginning will have
to be made at that point.
Character building requires the
broadest possible latitude of individual
initiative for each man and woman to
exercise their own reason, affection,
and will in ordering their own life, in
obedience to the highest ideals that in
spire them. The conception of respon
sibility for one s self can develop and
. i ,i • t
mature only thru exercise. lemper
, . • •. il
ance, moderation, reciprocity, a baianc-.
« w j u . i L
ed lite, in a word, selr-control, can be
gained only thru freedom of choice.
Ignorance, bigotry, untruth, and dis
honesty, embodied in statute, that ham
per, obstruct, or deny such freedom of
choice are directly responsible for the
degeneration of mankind. It makes no
particle of difference whether such dis
regard of the principle of human self
determination is imposed in the name
of emperor, king, or a majority rule,
it is the very essence of tyranny. The
eternal principles of nature and right
eousness do not change with the name
with which despotism is camouflaged.
fraged. '
That is one reason why the people
at Llano Colony are interested in men
tal science and in the study of human
nature. They realize that the success
of the whole co-operative movement
depends upon the cultivation and de
velopment of desirable human charac
teristics. Character is the touchstone
of all human achievement. What a
man is and what he can do is of the
greatest moment. The man atid the
\yoman are estimated by their useful
ness in the Llano Colony, and not by
the clothes they wear, nor the slick
J palaver they may be able to spout. Ser
v ' ce keynote, "Deliver the
Goods, the essential requirement, and
good taste dictates simplicity in rai
ment, which brings a person's loveli
ness into greatest prominence.
At the present pioneer stage of Col
ony enterprise, especially, is undue
and ostentatious display of finery out
of place. The fashions are a cunning
device of capitalists to get access to
your pocket book and waste unneces
sarily money that, especially at this
time, can be used more beneficially for
other purposes.
Attention must be concentrated on
the here and now, on the essential
things that we can do now, and are
engaged jn working at. To give at
tention to abstract propositions that
are now beyond our reach and have
no bearing on the task in hand, is sim
ply a waste of energy, that can be more
profitably invested in boosting the
work in hand.
We must make sure of all the facts
connected with co-operative effort. The
complete requirements of all industrial
enterprises and the reciprocity and mu
tualism to be scrupulously observed in
every one and all relations, arising out
of and connected with integral associ
?i 10n ' are so manifold anl indispensa,
I t0 suc ^ es j u ' achievement that w<
are compelled to give them our undi
vided attention.
The Llano ideal is a working propo
sition, and the colonists do not expect
nor plan to achieve their aim in any
other way except by plain, straight-for
ward constructive work and produc
tion. No one here intends to be para
sitical, nor to be victimized by para
sites, and any four-flusher or grand
stand player who may imagine that
we are a dead-easy bunch has another
guess coming, and will be up against
a hard proposition if they come here
and try it on.
Nature, the creative energy, life, or
call it anything else, if you please,
compensates the individual or group in
accordance with the intelligent work
done. It only responds to the con
structive activity of the intelligent
worker. Cheats, swindlers, thieves, or
robbers may despoil him or them, but
the only naturally rightful title to any
handiwork of man is proportionate la
bor performed, corresponding to the
effort required for its production.
Just as the worker erects a buiiding.
fashions a plow, other tool, or piece of
furniture, according to the idea he has
m mind, and acts upon, so also a man
or woman fashions his or her self,
builds character, according to the traits
of character exercised, and the course
which they pursue to gain their liv
lihood. Only the useful worker is pro
ductive and constructive. He gains
his living honestly and is prepared
and in*a position to fully compensate
for whatever products or services he
enjoys at the hand of other workers.
While those who do . not render some
appreciable, necessary, essential, use
ful and helpful service are through
and through dishonest, no matter how
they may delude themselves and sponge
on the useful workers.
Individual right conduct is the foun
dation and cornerstone of successful
co-operation. Whoever is not ready
to act on the square with his fellow
co-operators is not yet ready for a
co-operative colony nor for the co-op
erative commonwealth. Neither one of
which is possible of realization until
honesty and the golden rule become
the guides in human conduct.
AMERICANIZATION
Some time ago the third annual con
vention of the Oklahoma Educational
. . . , i • L r\ ,
Association was held at which Dr. las.
T T . . n t i e. . ■ •
J. ligert, United otates commissioner
? . , , . ,,
or education, spoke of the problems
, . , .
which present themselves in the pro
cess of "Americanization" of' foreign
ers. He declared that the blame ought
to be laid with the American citizens
who disdain to associate with foreign
ers, and call them such names as "da
goes," "frogs," "wops," and "bo
hunks," and encourage their children
who are compelled to associate with
the immigrant children in the public
schools to call them such names and
to despise them.
Tigert scored t' 3 American soldier
in France who ridiculed the French,
Belgians, English, and Italians, and
told stories concerning the cowardice
and other undesirable qualities of the
people and soldiers of these nations.
"America will never justly earn the
name of the greatest nation in the
world unless this snobbish attitude is
dropped forever, and a system off ed
ucation is instituted where all may de
rive the same benefits and be treated
alike.
The man who never changes is ab
surd.— Barthélémy.
MAN TO MAN
A* Open Letter to Charles E. Hughes
By Chas. L. Robinson.
At the outset, I shall assume that
you recall our conversation in regard to
the banking laws of the State of New
York, after the panic of 1909, and its
result—a revision of those laws. At
that time you were the governor of
said state, and I was in the banking
business, in a position to see how that
panic was manufactured. I had no
axe to grind in those days and I have
none in these days. I am non-partisan
and non-sectarian. I not only want
justice for myself, but want to do jus
tice to all; and if that is not the one
and only basis for the "100% Amer
ican" and for a citizen of the world,
I shall be glad to receive further light
on this phase of the subject.
So much by way of introduction,
with the promise that this will be my
last communication to you except by
your request.
I now start with the premise that the
original purpose of the founders of this
nation was "to establish JUSTICE,"
and I propose to apply that premise to
tnfe following situation:
OUR Government required say $25,
000,000,000, or its equivalent in cred
it, for war purposes, and obtained the
amount by issuing pieces of paper call
ed BONDS, bearing interest, and se
cured by the total wealth of the nation ;
Such Credit may be described as the
capitalization of Confidence and Good
Will, with that "total wealth" as col
lateral, and is the result of the total
activities of all of the people of the
nation, as a going concern; yet our
Government authorized a few of the
people, called bankers, to exact a profit
from all of the people, at a cost of
untold millions of dollars;
That cost, p|us interest that will
amount to the face value of the bonds
(judging from past experiences), plus
leases to small holders through depre
ciation, forced sales through calling of
loans by banks, plus interest paid to
banks for borrowing OUR credit (re
ferred to in the preceding paragraph),
plus the cost to the ultimate consum
er of the amount EXEMPT FROM
TAXATION.
That last provision alone, assuming
that the constitution is for just, equal
and good laws, is evidence enough that
the bond issue is un-constitutional.
Then, take the facts that the Govern
ment promises to pay the face value
of these bonds in GOLD—a promise
, f £
; that " cannot fulflU and was awa »"e of
j the ^ when it made the promise;
sm f e " exam Ple is omnipotent," what
sha11 be salcl of such an example by
a Government or a man?
What then was the alternative?
Obviously if pieces of paper called
bonds, secured as above described, are
good, pieces of paper Called currency
secured by the same total wealth, and
NOT BEARING INTEREST, are bet
ter. Axiom: No thing is settled until
it is settled rightly (justly), and it is
never too late to right wrongs.
Enter EQUITY, and Equity says
RESTORE.
Proposition: All that I have, the
savings of a lifetime, is invested in such
interest-bearing, tax-exempt bonds, and
I hereby agree to exchange such bonds
(now at a premium) for their face val
ue (cost to me) in currency notes OF
THE U. S. GOVERSMENT, but not
"bank notes," nor Federal Reserve
Notes.
In Equity, it would be in order to
say "Provided holders who have paid
less than par shall receive what they
paid and no more, and that any 'pre
mium' shall be ignored," but I waive
such provisions.
Assuming then, that Congress de
sires to pass some "bonus legislation,"
such refunding would bring at least
twenty-five billions of dollars in sight.
NEW JERSEY FARMERS
ORGANIZE TO CO-OPERATE
. (By The Federated Press)
New York. — New Jersey, farmers,
tired of paying tribute "coming and
going," to the interests which control
farm supplies and through which they
have had to market their products, now
are organizing not only to market crops
collectively, but to buy their supplies
co-operatively. Thru a committee of
the State Federation of County Board's
of Agriculture, they are forming a far
mers' state purchasing association, thru
which county and even smaller groups
of farmers will buy their staple sup
plies.
100% AMERICANISM (?)
DEGRADES WORKMEN
(By The Federated Press)
New Orleans. — Conditions on the
ships visiting the port of New Orleans
demonstrate how completely the La
Follette seamen's act has been scrap
ped, though this law still remains on
the statute books. The humane regu
lations of hours and working condi
tions imposed by the La Follette act
have been supplanted by long hours
and wages representing the starvation
level in the port of employment.
Once a Month
Every day we receive letters from friends of the Colony who express a
desire to help us in some way, but who are unable to take out a membership
or join the 125-CLUB; and, until now, there has been no way for them to do
so. Now comes a comrade with p . suggestion for a systematic plan by which
our many supporters of small mean;- may assist in the up-building of the Colony.
We are now compelled to spend much of our time and energy in produc
ing articles for sale in the local markets in order to meet current expenses.
There would be no objection to this, if we were building only for ourselves;
in fact, we should then extend such business to the limit. But we are not
building for ourselves alone; our plans are far greater than that—we are build
ing for the thousands who are to come—we are building for YOU, Comrades.
And every hour we spend in manufacturing products, for sale outside of the
Colony retards just that much the progress of the Colony as a whole. Every
minute of our time; every ounce of our energy, should be put forth in the
actual work of building and clearing and preparing for you, who are to come
later. The more we are able to do this, the sooner you will be able to join us.
There are also many of our friends who, for various reasons, will not
make Llano their permanent home, but who, nevertheless, wish to see it grow
and be a successful demonstration of the theories they have always believed
in. Now it is possible for them to assist the movement in a practical way
Llano
Dollar-Up
Club
Acting on the suggestion of this comrade, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
has been formed, and we now invite our thousands of well-wishers through
out the country to take advantage of the opportunity thus offered them.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB is composed of comrades who pledge
themselves to give a dollar or more a month, the money to be used to meet
current expenses. These expenses are comparatively small, the most of our
food and necessaries we produce for ourselves; but there are some things
that we must buy and pay cash for.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB will do this for US and allow US to
keep on steadily building for YOU.
We are expecting you, comrades, to help us prove to the world that we
are right. You may depend on us to do our very utmost—may we depend
upon you?
If You Cant Help a Lot,
HELP A LITTLE!
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
Newllano, via Leesville, La.