Plant Them Now!
Australian
Giant Beans
Beans Grow Five
Feet Long
A NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way at egg-plant
Much resembles the latter—except
Iii at by many colonists it is
much preferred to it
Grows to the enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
<=ï!turs ^ith •sack packet of seeds.
The colonist who introduced Aus
I« ». d »* * 11 *i d» î
uralian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1
for 3 seeds
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOW !
Prise—r50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
Erie Labor Press
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class. Member
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penn'a. Live, snappy, breezy.
Sample Copy free on request. One Year, $1.50.
Trial Subscription—JO weeks, 25c.
The Er et Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE, MISS.
IS A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture. Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur
ants, hotels, libraries pnd places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1.00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mem
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE—As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure. 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject as
does THE EQUITIST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
(Do You Want Her?)
"A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts th^ new girl, as exem
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
Progressive Constructive
Mutual Service Liberates
Our bond of fellowship is mutual
service. Friendly, loving disposition
and interest in the well-being of others
is most convincingly exhibited by a
willingness to minister to the necessi
ties, comforts, enjoyment and happi
ness of comrades. Fervent protesta
tions of loving devotion without corre
sponding usefulness are but sounding
brass and a tinkling symbal, and hence
originated the expression, "Talk is
cheap!" "But," says some bne, "the
scripture says, "By thy words thou art
justified, and by thy words thou art
condemned,' " Quit true, indeed.
Words, however, are something more
than mere sound emitted from the lips,
or certain writings scribbled on any
kind of a surface. Words, with refer
ence to human beings, include the
whole sum of his expressions, actions
and conduct, and mere lip-service is
not considered as amounting to much
and to be entirely inadequate when it
comes to a show down.
By their fruits (conduct) you shall
, TZZ' k"
know them, was. a pointer tfiat the
great teacher of Nazareth gave to his
followers. By their conduct people are
either justified or condemned. It is
the only acid test that defies misrepre
sentation
Because Llano Colony has no resi
dent minister and holds no church ser
vices Sunday morning, some people
surmise that we are an irreligious peo
ple. But they never were more greatly
mistaken in àll their lives than when
they jumped to such a conclusion. We
lay claim to being the most religions
people in the whole country and are
engaged in our devotion every waken
hour of the day the year around. Our
devotion takes the form of faithful,
useful service that is needed by all of
us and is correspondingly appreciated.
And the creative principle (be it what
it may), seems to be well-satisfied
with that' expression of our worship,
for we are blessed with happiness and
plenty.
There is neither prince or pauper
here; we possess all things in common,
as is reported to have been the case
with the primitive Christians. We might
reflect upon some of our critics to their
disadvantage, but prefer not to do so;
for it would serve no useful purpose.
For many years we have tried to bet
ter things in general by political action,
through labor organizations, etc., with
out accomplishing much of anything;
so at last we have taken the bit be
tween our îeeth and made a bolt to
help ourselves by direct constructive
action, encouraged in our endeavor by
the well-known teaching that God helps
tions as late as fifty and sixty years
-
in
And we are much encouraged in our
work by the example set us by the
workers in Europe. In England, Bel
gium, France, Germany, Switzerland,
Italy, Denmark, Sweden, Czechoslo
vakia, Poland, Russia, and elsewhere.
Workers by co-operating are building
homes for themselves, carrying on agri
culture and all kinds of industries, and
are enjoying plenty, while those who
are dependent on so-called employers
for a livelihood are without work and
on the ragged edge of despair.
Working people in America must be
come self-reliant once more as they
were in the early days of the settle
ment of this country and in some sec
tions as late as fifty and sixty lears ago.
While attending an^ editorial conven
tion at Columbia, Md., I met an old
time miller, W. T. Anderson by name,
who is now over eighty years old. He
settled in Columbia when it was an in
land town without railroad, and when
goods had to be hauled in from Provi
dence on the Missouri river, twelve
miles distant, shipped by steamboat
from St. Louis. And this is what he
said of olden times:
"My, it makes a man think he's
thousand years old to recall all the
changes that have taken place! The
farmers in those days did not have to
go to the grocery store every day for
provisions. They killed their own hogs,
made their own bacon and smoked
their own hams. If one hasn't tasted
those things, he doesn't realize what
he has missed. Quail used to sell for
\2/z cents a dozen, eggs retailed at'
3 or 4 cents a dozen, and 15 cents a
bushel was the price of oats. Why,
brown sugar retailed at five cenfs a
pound, and one could buy maple su
gar at 4 cents. Tree syrup was only
50 to 60 cents a gallon.
"I used to buy goose feathers for
feather beds. The farmers around here
plucked their own geese.
"Many is the carpet I've bought
which was woven by women here, and
yards of linsey, too. That linsey was
made on looms right here, understand,
and some of it had blue stripes, some
red, and plaid linsey was not uncom
mon.
"The men wore brown jeans on week
days and blue ones on Sundays. Green
walnut hulls colored the jeans. We all
wore boots, too, and when a young
fellow wanted to. look smart he showed
his red tops."
They produced everything at home
in those early days and didn't have
to pay outrageously high freight rates
to piratical railroad companies, nor ex
tortionate profits to a score of middle
men.
To-day in some parts of Missouri,
hay is as low as three dollars a ton,
and in other sections people have to
pay sixteen dollars a ton, because of
high freight, a virtual embargo is plac
ed upon farm products. Farmers can't
sell them, and consumers cannot buy
them, and that's what some folks call
civilization !
Politicians are doing nothing to re
lieve the distress of the people and di
rect productive, co-operative, action
offers the only reliable avenue to a bet
ter state of affairs. We say co-opera
tive action, because isolated individual
ventures are too impotent to accomplish
much of anything. There is no ques
tion that a man can go out on his own
hook, or with his family and make some
kind of a living on the soil away in
the wilderness; but he is deprived of
all the social advantages that a co-op
erative community can offer. This
writer knows what he is discussing now
because he pioneered in the Grand ri
ver valley, Colorado, near Grand
Junction, over forty years ago. And
he could tell some stories of privations
and hardships too numerous to men
tion. But that is beside the point of
this article.
Man is a social being, and he requir
es proper association with his fellows,
co-operation to the utmost, to make the
most of himself and to accomplish the
maximum of usefulness to mankind as
a- whole. And this he can do only by
identifying himself and his welfare as
being indissolubly bound up with and
dependent upon the well-being of his
fellows. We require co-operation and
co-ordination of human industry, and
not planless, heedless, so-called compe
tition, regardless of the needs of the
people, often resulting in wasteful du
plication and worse.
The concrete requirements of human
life are definite, something that can be
ascertained to a very closely approxi
mating exactitude. And if we had a
government that knew its business and
attended to it, definite statistics to this
end woüld be collected and made the
basis for production and distribution.
Governments have failed to do this in
Europe and they don't do it in Amer
ica. Co-operation jumped in the breach
in Europe and helped those who avail
ed themselves of its facilities, and the
, . . .
American people must take recourse to
coo-peration likewise and are-bound to
?«>re the same success that the workers
in Europe have to their credit.
This is about the substance derived
from the remarks made at the psycho
logical meeting on Thursday night,
April, 13, at Newllano.
Comrade Coleman read a highly in
teresting paper on the many ways in
which sulphur can be used in domestic
affairs. The paper will appear on an
other page in this issue. Comrade Ka
potsy spoke about sanitary plumbing
and Mr. Loutrel on prevention of dis
ease. Quite a diversity of subjects,
you see. And that's the kind of people
we are.
WAGES DOWN TO BEDROCK
(By The Federated Press)
Chicago, — "Wages for unskilled
and low-paid railroad workers have
reached the stopping point, below
which, for reasons of public policy, as
well as those bearing on efficiency and
output in industry, rates of pay can
not be permitted to fall," W. Jett
Lauck told the United States railway
labor board.
Announcements
Sunday. —
Choir Practice, 9:30 a.m.
Esperanto, 11:00 a.m.
Mental Science Study, 6:30 p.m.
Program at Theater, 8.00 p.m.
Monday —
Children's Mental Science Class
at 6:30 p. m)
Orchestra practice, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday. —
Card Party, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday. —
Music Classes: Wind instruments
6:30; Strings, 7:00; Vocal,
8: p.m.
Thursday. «—
Esperanto, 6:30 p.m.
Psychological Meeting, 7:30 p.m.
Friday. —
Night School, 6:30.
Agricultural Class, 7:45.
Saturday. —
Dancing class, 7:30 p.m.
Dancing, 8:30 to 10:30.
What Is a
-operative
Farm ?
The Llano Co-operative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY ?
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type of co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co-operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attradtive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery, tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as broom corn, peanuts, or other produce
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education of his children, the co-operative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
;he child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is thai soma co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get onto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In this section, a very small acreage is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries and farms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—IF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want to live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-operative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colony.
$15.00 an Acre
It is said that a man and his family can live on five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel — board and
Llano Co-operative Colony
eesville - - - Louisiana
S