COAL MINERS GOING TO RUSSIA
The first coal miners' co-operative
■of the S. T. A. S. R, is going to Rus
sia in the latter part of April. This
-co-operative consists of over 50 mem
bers and has over $15,000.00 fpr tools
•and equipment.
On the 22nd of February this co-op
«rative Sent Comrade Bocarac as a
-delegate to Moscow, who upon arrival
there conferred with L. C. A. R. Mar
tens, head of the Immigration Depart
ment of the Supreme Council of Na
tional Economy. As a result of this
-conference a cablegram was received
^vhich reads in part as follows:
' "Coal miners co-operative of the S.
T. A. S. R., Zeigler, Ills., is to immedi
ately leave for Petrograd from where
it is to follow to its place of destina
tion."
(Signed) Bocarac, delegate of Zeig
ler, Ills. Miners Co-op
(Signed) L. C. A. K. Martens, S. C.
]N. E., Dept. of Industrial Immigration.
Coal miners who are interested in
taking over Russian mines and run
ning them for themselves, may obtain
all necessary information by writing
to the: : Miners' Section, Central Bu
reau, Soc. for Technical Aid to Sovi
«t Russia, Rcom 303, 110 West 40th
.St., New York, N. Y.
CONGRESSMAN ASKS AID
FOR DIRECT TRADING
Congressman Wm. C. Lankford, of
Georgia, has just introduced a bill in
the House of Representatives appropri
ating $25,000 to be expended by the
Secretary of Agriculture in organizing
-direct trading between the watermelon
and canteloupe producers of Georgia
and consumers' buying associations in
the District of Columbia. The Georgia
farmers got little or 1 nothing for their
"valuable melon crop last year, while
•consumers in Atlantic coast cities con
nected directly by rail with the Georgia
melon markets were compelled to pay
:$1.00 apiece and up for fair-sized me
lons.
Congressman Lankford believes that
co-operative marketing will not only
greatly reduce the price of melons to
the consumers and give them a fresh
er fruit, but will also enable the far
mers to secure a decent return for their
labor and expense. The Lankford di
rect trading bill is being warmly sup
ported by the All-American Co-opera
tive Commission, which has success
fully promoted similar direct trading
■enterprises throughout the country dur
ing the past year.
VICTORY IN ILLINOIS TOWN
Belleville, 111. — At the recent elec
tion in this city the Farmer-Labor par
ty elected its full list of candidates.
'Candidates for chief supervisor and
■four assistants, together with seven
candidates for aldermen on the Far
mer-Labor ticket were elected. This
gives labor a majority in the city coun
cil.
FARM-LABOR MOVE
MENT GROWS FAST
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Frederic C. Howe,
secretary of the Conference for Pro
gressive Political Action, reports rapid
•development of the farmer-labor-Iiber
al movement in Oklahoma, Iowa, No.
Dakota, Michigan, Indiana, Wyoming,
Nevada, Pennsylvania, Maryland and
T exas.
The Labor News
The "Labor News" published in Al
toona, Pa., is the largest LABOR PA
PER published in the state, and gives
you the labor news from home.
LABOR NEWS PUB. C.
ALTOONA, PA.
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
MR. H. LINDLAHR, Nature Cure
Author, says:
"Ever since I first read "Progress
and Poverty" and while studying the
land question from the Henry George
viewpoint, ■ I felt that there was some
thing wrong about his attitude towards
capitalism. Your little book will be an
eye-opener to many students of social
problems. It is the little things over
which we stumble every day that we
don't see. You are the first one who
has harmonized the land problem and
the wage question—Henry George and
Marx."
A concise, clothbound volume on
current economic thought, dealing with
the cause of unemployment, the cur
rency reform, etc—50c postpaid from
THE
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Leesville, La.
THE GATEWAY OF FREEDOM
Legislatively established obstacles
and barriers ought to be removed that
prohibit and deter people by threats of
violence from doing right things that
are essential to their livelihood, secur
ity and happiness. The existence and
the inflictions of such invasive laws are
responsible for the disrespect and con
tempt that are felt by an ever-growing
multitude for all human laws. Henry
Ford is quite right when on his page
in the Dearborn Independent of April'
15, he declares that:
"In its truest sense, law is not re
pressive, but liberative. The [know
ledge of the] law of mathematics sets
us free in the kingdom of numbers.
The [knowledge of the] law of letters
sets us free in the realm of recorded
thought. Law is the gateway into
freedom. If we KNEW the economic
law, if we KNEW the law of human re
lations, if we KNEW the total law of
life, then we should be free of econom
ic chaos and its repressive power, we
should be free of the intolerable bur
dens of human misunderstandings, we
should be free of the various slaveries
in which our ignorance and stupidity
hold us to-day."
It is {he application and conformity
of our conduct with the law or pro
cesse8j or mo des of functioning of the
p r i nc ipl es of life, of righteous human
relations, and the right way to use na
tural energies and resources, that alone
constitute freedom.
Knowledge being thus the prime re
quisite of freedom, can there be any
more dastardly activity for those en
trusted with the administration of
public affairs, either in governmental
capacity or as a public utility, than
to deliberately falsify information, to
poison the fountain of knowledge by
means of textbooks in our educational
institutions, the press, the movies, the
radio or from the rostrum?
For instance, in the same number of
the Dearborn Independent is contained
an article under the caption "Banks
use print to crush Money Heresies:
Country flooded by propaganda of
American Bankers' Association; Peri
odicals spread viewpoint of present
money system's friends." The article is
lacking in historical perspective when
it assumes that bankers have been en
gaged in their pernicious and mislead
ing propaganda only since 1896. A
careful student of the political history
of these United States positively knows
that the banking propaganda has been
more or les? active since the very be
ginning of this government.
The present monetary system is a
violation of the law of mathematics.
It has reduced the great majority of
the American people to the most ab
ject slavery, insecurity and wretched
ness; and yet the government whose
function it ought to be to secure and
protect every member of the nation in
the right to, and the enjoyment of, the
indispensable necessaries .of life, the
right to liberty, and the right to the
pursuit of happiness—this government
deliberately upholds and backs up the
bankers in their unjust exactions upon
the people, and aids and assists them in
poisoning the minds of the people.
The writer is not opposed to repres
sive laws, provided they are defensive,
protective and restitutive in their char
acter; but his soul, every fiber of his
being, resents and revolts against the
imposition of human enactments that
deliberately inflict wrong and outrage;
and by threats of violence cower the
people into submission. The enact
ment, maintenance and infliction of
unjust laws is not freedom, but out
right tyranny—disprove it who can.
"Respect for law," sàys Mr. Ford,
"is a sentiment restricted to people fit
to be free; all others feel fear of law.
Laws should be potent to enable as
well as suppress. They should be res
titutive as well as punitive. Restitu
tion is the highest corrective ; it corrects
the criminal it repairs the economic
breach made by the crime it balances
the record instead of merely stigmatiz
ing the offender./ We fail because it
is not justice that we seek—justice all
around for society, for the citizen of
fended against, for the offender. Laws
that merely make for the repressing of
crime, and not also for the releasing
of the normal moral energies, are one
sided. Law and liberty go together,
when law is the instrument of justice.
And such law always commands true
respect."
"If a man kills another, he should
be compelled to take up that other
man's burdens and carry them through.
He should be compelled to labor under
surveillance for the fulfillment of his
victim's economic responsibilities. If
his victim left children, the slayer
should be put to work to support and
educate those children. Murder would
be a serious thing if murderers were
thus compelled to live out the econom
ic duties of the life they destroyed.
And juries thus arranging for restitu
tion would find truer verdicts. What
is more wasteful than for the state to
kill a man, losing two lives for one,
and leaving families without the ben
efit of restitutive labor?
"We need laws that will enable peo
ple to do the right things that are wait
ing to be done, more than we need laws
which prohibit them from doing the
RUSSIAN REPRESENTATIVE
EXPOSES FRENCH DESIGNS
(By The Federated Press)
Genoa (by cable). — George Chic
herin, Russian foreign minister, called
the French disarmament bluff at the
first meeting of the European economic
conference which opened here April
10. The new order successfully chal
lenged the old.
At the Washington disarmament con
ference, Aristide Briand, French prem
ier, had stated that France would glad
ly disarm, but could not do, so on ac
count of the Russian Red Army. Chic
herin, who is leading the Russian dele
gation, told the Genoa conference that
Russia would cheerfully discuss disarm
ament, particularly with the French.
The anger of the French delegation
was expressed by its leader, Louis Bar
thou, who said that disarmament was
not to be discussed. Chicherin was
ruled out of order when he attempted
to speak again by the Italian premier
Facta, who was in the chair.
But he had accomplished his pur
pose of making French imperialism so
obvious that nobody could mistake it.
Chicherin's protest, at the second
meeting, against the seating of Japan
ese and Rumanian delegates on the
ground that those countries were en
gaged in military occupation of Rus
sian territory, was also overruled.
The Russian delegation is the chief
center of interest in the streets and ho
tels. The Germans are next in attrac
ting attention.
The French opposition to Russian
participation in the open conferenceL
based on the desire to keep Russia
from having equal rights with the rest
of the great powers, was overcome by
the British, headed by Premier David
Lloyd George.
The Russians lost again in turn when
their proposal to invite Turkey and
Montenegro was vetoed. Montenegro
now incorporated as part of Jugo
slavia.
Christian Radovsky, premier of the
Ukrainian soviet republic, and member
of the Russian delegation, gave out the
following statement to The Federated
Press :
"Russia regrets that America is not
a participant at the Genoa conference.
America alone is powerful enough to
compel dimarmament. Russia and
America agree on the disarmament is
ALLIES SQUANDER
REPARATION FUNDS
(By The Federated Press)
Berlin. — The German Federation
of Labor and the Federation of Pro
fessionals have issued a joint state
ment protesting against the wasteful
expenditure of the German reparation
money by the allies.
The statement cites The Paris Temps
in proof of the claim that out of II,
000,000,000 of gold marks paid by
Germany up to Dec. 31, 1921, only
2, 800,000,000 were used in the re
construction of France, and that much
of the remainder was spent for the oc
cupation and for the interallied com
missions in Germany.
A French general now receives 1,
886,200 German marks per year, in
the occupied area.
The German labor unions are in fa
vor of making good the damage caused
by the German armies, but they pro
test against the waste of money in
ways which do not reconstruct Europe,
the statement declares.
LAW AND ORDER
(By The Federated Press)
East St. Louis, 111. — "Cruelty to
prisoners at the East St. Louis jail will
shock the community," says City Com
missioner M. J. Whalen, who will pre
sent evidence to the grand jury, which
convenes April 10th.
The grand jury investigation of al
leged cruelty to prisoners follows the
death of John Campanella, an Italian,
who, Commissioner Whalen says, was
beaten by detectives attempting to force
a confession to the charge of murder.
Campanella was arrested Marph 22.
' A keeper at the jail claims to have
found the prisoner suspended with his
shirt, which had been done into a
noose, from the bars of his cell. A
physician performed an autopsy, at the
instance of the widow, who is left with
four children, and reported that, in his
opinion, Campanella did not die from
strangulation.
BRITISH IMPERIALISM
DOOMED IN INDIA
(By The Federated Press)
Sydney, N. S. W. — "Nobody outv
side India has any conception of the
gravity of the situation there," declar
ed Capt. W. W. J. Simmons of the
British garrison in India in an inter
view here.
"Official circles in India expect a
rebellion any time. The British troops
have orders for action. The native
troops are considered unreliable.
wrong things which they are allured to
do because so many ways are unopen
ed." [obstructed.]
& SV
: ä!S§S
Once a
Every day we receive letters from friends of the Colony who express a
desire to help us in some way, but who are unable to take out a membership
or join the 125-CLUB; and, until now, there has been no way for them to do
so. Now comes a comrade with a suggestion for a systematic plan by which
our many supporters of small means pay assist in the up-building of the Colony.
We are now compelled to spend much of our time and energy in produc
ing articles for sale in the local markets in order to meet current expenses.
There would be no objection to this, if we were building only for ourselves;
in fact, we should then extend such business to the limit. But we are not
building for ourselves alone; our plans are far greater than that—we are build
ing for the thousands who are to. come—we are building for YOU, Comrades.
And every hour we spend in manufacturing products for sale outside of the
Colony retards just that much the progress of the Colony as a whole. Every
minute of our time; every ounce of our energy, should be put forth in the
actual work of building and clearing and preparing for you, who are to come
later. The more we are able to do this, the sooner you will be abje to join us.
There are also many of our friends who, for various reasons, will not
make Llano their permanent home, but who, nevertheless, wish to see it grow
and be a successful demonstration of the theories they have always believed
in. Now it is possible for them to assist the movement in a practical" way
Llano
Dollar -Up
Club
Acting on the suggestion of this comrade, the LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB
has been formed, and we now invite our thousands of well-wishers through
out the country to take advantage of the opportunity thus offered them.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB is composed of comrades who pledge
themselves to give a dollar or more a month, the money to be used to meet
current expenses. These expenses are comparatively small, the most of our
food and necessaries we produce for ourselves; but there are some things
that we must buy and pay cash for.
The LLANO DOLLAR-UP CLUB will do this for US and allow US to
keep on steadily building for YOU.
We are expecting you, comrades, to help us prove to the world that we
are right. You may depend on us to do our very utmost—may we depend
upon you?
If You Can't Help a Lot,
HELP A LITTLE!
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
Newllano, via Leesville, La.
MUk