ITALIAN STEAMSHIP TO
SOVIET RUSSIA PORTS
(By The Federated Pre»»)
Naples. — A steamship line between
Italian ports and Russian cities along
the Black sea has been organized by
the Italian ministry of merchant mar
ine and the Lloyd Triestino organiza
tion, which has offices all along the
Black sea.
LABOR ADMINISTRATION
ATTENDS TO ITS BUSINESS
(By The Federated Press)
Sydney, N. S. W. — The labor gov
ernment of New South Wales will in
troduce a scheme of state insurance
covering all forms of insurance, includ
ing fire and accidents, and unemploy
ment.
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP—this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp and the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked; then it flows out at the other
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
, ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining of
white sugar. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
ter—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about V/4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup»—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food value. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and plain. Try a pound of this and
see what Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to: i
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA.
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
, Made and^Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in: —
Progress and Plenty
' By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, "Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or low. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
is fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
A VICTIM OF PROFITEERING
(By The Federated Pre««)
Nashua, N. .H. — William Simonds,
a 65-year-old cotton textile operative
at the Nashua Mills, who has been on
strike for eight weeks, was found starv
ed to death at a lodging house. Si
monds' funds gave out some time ago
and his fellow-strikers seem to have
been unaware of his plight.
BRITISH EXPLOITERS
LOCK OUT WORKERS
(By The Federated Press)
London, — All the British shipyards
are idle to-day, the employers having
locked out 350,000 workers because
of their refusal to accept wage cuts
of 25 shillings a week.
AUSTRALIAN UNIONISTS JOIN
RED INTERNATIONAL
(By The Federated Press)
Sydney, N. S. W. — The Labor
council of New South Wales, the larg
est trade union council on the Austral
ian continent, has carried a motion to
affiliate with the Red International.
The constitution of the council will be
altered to bring it into line with the
Red International.
BENIGHTED MEXICO IN
VANGUARD OF PROGRESS
<
(By The Federated Press)
Mexico City. — The government of
Yucatan has introduced birth control
according to a statement in El Heraldo
De Mexico by Miguel Canton, Yucatan
Socialist" party. Every newly-married
couple receives gratis a booklet by Mar
garet Sanger.
SHOE WORKERS FORM
ONE BIG UNION
(By The Federated Press)
Manchester, N. H. — A proposed
merger of all unions in the shoe indus
try was endorsed unanimously by three
locals of the United Shoe Workers of
America, representing a majority of the
operatives in this city, John McCud
den, secretary, Manchester, announced.
BEWARE OF POOR TAILORING
Chicago. — The Royal Tailors, who
advertise themselves as the world's
largest tailors with representatives in
10,000 cities, have declared for the op
en shop.
' Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
SURPHUR AND ITS
VARIOUS USES
By George D. Coleman
Pure sulphur, or brimstone, AS
BRIMSTONE, is as inert and chemjc
ally inactive, while it remains uncom
bined, as broken bottles or glass; but
the moment it enters into chemical
combination with oxygen, it becomes
the most active of the elements. Mon
oxide of sulphur, or sulphur one part
and oxygen one part, part of the sul
phur becomes sulphurous acid gas, a
true gas, is formed; and, if the union
is the result of heat, part of the sul
phur is sublimated. That is, it is pass
ed into an uncombined fume and is lat
er precipitated as a fine yellow powder
called flowers of sulphur, which you
all know, as it is this impalpable pow
der triturated with vaseline, lard, sim
ple crate, etc and used as ointment,
that will cure ring worm, mange, many
forms of exema, a a dressing for
wounds, and to protect a broken sur
face or bruised flesh from germs. It
is also used internally for rheumatism,
as in the body it becomes oxygenized,
and as a fumicide and germicide is
entirely without equal; but as sulphur
ous acid gas it is the most active, pun
gent and penetrating fungicide and
germicide there is. When one more
atom of oxygen unites with the sul
phur, or two atoms of oxygen with
one atom of sulphur, wç have dioxide,
and there is 110 sublimation or precip
itation, anl ALL is turned into sul
phurous acid gas. Sulphurous acid
gîis, like carbonic acid gas, oxygen,
sulphuretted hydrogen, and other gas
es, are absorbed by water and it be
comes thus easier to handle and use.
HoW much sulphurous acid gas wa
ter is able to absorb is not definitely
known; but it is several times its like
volume of the gas.
It is a constant source of amazement
to me, when it is so well known, that
the uses of the aqueous solution of sul
phurous acid gas is entirely neglected,
and I cannot account for this neglect
except by the fact that the popular
mind has no knowledge of scientific
facts and is unable to think or act sci
entifically, or that we are still savag
es.
The aqueous solution of sulphurous
acid gas is easily and cheaply made.
There is no need of any expensive and
complicated apparatus. Everything
can be made right on the place, and
the amount made ought to be enough
to meet all the many and various uses
that can be made with it. It can be
used as a spfay, as a disinfectant, de
odorant, fungicide, germicide, for
poultry, and all stock as a medicine,
and for humans as well. It is reported
as having been successfully used as a
spray for the ^hroat in membraneous
croup and dyptheria, dissolving the
membrane in both cases that forms in
the throat.
Sulphur burned in a small 4 feet by
2 /2 feet cement-linëd chamber, with
an opening into another chamber of,
say, 7 feet high, 8 ft. wide, and 12 ft.
long, or 7x8x16, in which a tank is
placed at one end and through the
wall of the chamber a light shaft is
run, with an agitator in the tank of
water to keep the water in cqnstant
motion, and it will absorb the gas. If
it can be arranged for a forced draft
on the sulphur and force the v flame
under the water, if can be made quick
ly, and a far stronger solution can be
made. In the form of this aqueous so
lution, it has many most valuable uses.
Sprinkled in a stable on the manure,
flies will not breed; it will kill the eggs
or the worms formed. It will cure ring
worms and mange and many forms of
exema. Burns scalds and bruises, galls
of collars on horses and mules will heal
quickly as it kills all germs. Sprayed
in the nests and on the roosts of fowls
it will kill lice and the red mites that
suck the blood of fowls..
Poison oak, or Rus Toxicadendron,
it will cool the burning, stop the itch
ing, reduce the' swelling, and cure it
more quickly than anything else, by
keeping clothes wet with it on the poi
soned parts.
A piece of ground infected with po
tato blight, tomato blight or any form
of blight, if the solution is sprayed be
fore and after plowing, they will show
no blight. Bordeaux' mixture sprayed
on plants with the blight is generally
effective; but why attack the effect-.?
Why not attack the cause, the fungus
of blight in the soil, and thus save the
plant from being diseased? We all
know the characteristic smell of rotten
eggs. It is sulphuretted hydrogen gas
Melt sulphur and force hydrogen
gas through it, and you produce sul
phuretted hydrogen and the identical
smell of the rotten egg. Why does an
egg have this smell when rotten? Be
cause no egg can be laid that has not
sulphur in it. In 5 fact, whether in a
plant, or in an animal, there is found
albuminoids, that is, forms of albumin,
or protein matter, or nitrogen in the tis
sue or fiber, there is always found sul
phur. Burn hen feathers and you will
smell the sulphur. Feathers were
burned to disinfect rooms from diseas
es, but the only thing that did the dis
infecting was the sulphur contained in
the feathers. A room where the beds
and very walls were infested with bed
bugs, if tightly closed, and sulphur
burned, will be rid of every bug; and
if on the eighth day thereafter the fum
igation is, repeated, when the eggs are
hatching out, it will kill them before
they can lay another egg, and there
will be no more bugs in that room un
til they are introduced from the out
side. And so with weevils in a barn
or a granary.
But as to poultry; You have often
noticed that a boiled or fried egg will
have part of the white of the egg that
will not coagulate but remains like
milk. That is due to the hen's not
having enough sulphur, and no matter
how well fed, if they do not get enough
sulphur they will lay that kind of eggs
and not as many as they would if they
had sulphur.
You have noticed that hens laid eggs
whose yolks were pale yellow, when a
healthy hen should lay eggs with a red
yolk. Why is this? The lack of sul
phur. And in this color of the egg,
is sulphate of iron; and the proof of
this is, that if you give hens sulphate
of iron in their drinking water, this
light sickly yellow yolk will quickly
change to the healthy color. Hens giv
en the right amount of sulphur will
moult in half the time, and young
chicks will feather very much more
quickly, and be in better health and
grow faster. Alfalfa, clover, peas,
beans, and all plants that gather -ni
trogen from the air need sulphur to
thrive; and when there is no sulphur
available, alfalfa and clover will not
grow. Hence it is that both alfalfa
and clover, and all nitrogen-gathering
plants are aided very materially by the
use of sulphate of lime, as both sul
phur and lime are needed by them.
But one of the uses of the aqueous so
lution of sulphurous acid gas is that
if you fill a,crock or barrel with it, or
rather pour it on fruit or vegetables,
it will keep them for months, or even
a year, perfectly fresh.
Again, if fresh meat or fish is hung
up in the 2nd chamber and fully smok
ed with the sulphurous acid gas, it can
be hung up in a hot summer and the
meat or fish will not smell, but will
dry out and become as hard as a board
and can then be ground up for chick
ens or for hog feed; or, if boiled, for
human food, as the heat will drive off
all of the gas remaining and leave nei
ther smell nor taste of the sulphur.
There are other uses that can be made
of sulphur, and we should make it here
in the Colony and use it as a fungi
cide, deodorant, disinfectant and ger
micide. And, remember, that, while a
powerful germicide, killing ail disease
germs and harmful bacteria, it is the
very best encourager to beneficial' bac
teria, such as the bacteria of nitrifica
tion.
In conclusion, I want to again draw
attention to the fact that ,as phosphate
gives vitality to all seeds and in all
ovum or eggs is to be found, just so
is sulphur found in all ovum or eggs.
Read in all the statements of Huxley
and Haeckel their statements as to pro- '
toplasm or plasm as Huxley calls it,
4 the physical basis of organic life,"
this plasm always contains sulphur.
The "Last Words on Evolution," the
last lecture delivered by Haeckel, to
be found in our own library, on page
133, he states the composition of the
plasm as Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen,
and Sulphur. Sulphur is necessary in
our mesinteric glands to form the pri
mary cells that are thrown into our cir
culation and when absorbed by any or
gan are differentiated into the cell pe
culiar to that organ. In fact, without
sulphur, we could not live. The amount
of sulphur in all cases is small, but
without it we should die. We have sul
phur in our hair and in our liver. Hens
need it to grow feathers and lay, eggs
even more than humans; and hens giv
en sulphur in their drinking water will
lay better eggs and more of them. In
fact, until you have studied the ques
tion, you will have no idea of the util
ity of sulphur. No wonder the eight
years of study of the subject by the
Oregon Agricultural Experiment Sta
tion and the results of sulphur upon
plants was a surprise and astonishment
to them; and, if the Colony will make
the sulphurous acid gas solution, we
can easily make a demonstration, at
small expense, tthat will surprise you
at the very many valuable uses you
can make of it.
CHRISTIAN ENGLAND
WOULD POISON NATIVES
(By The Federated Press)
Washington. — Because the people
of India, in their resistance to British
rule, have boycotted the drug trade
and thereby cut down the revenue from
opium by 80 per cent in the past year,
the British government has lately in
troduced the drug trade in the mandat
ed territories of Africa and Asia, in di
rect violation of the terms of the peace
treaty, according to a statement issued
here by the American commission to
promote self government in India.
LABOR TICKET WINS IN KANSAS
(By The Federated Press)
Arkansas City, Kans.—A labor tick
et was elected here when George Mc
intosh, retired locomotive engineer,
was elected mayor.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacturing end.
But co-operatk» 'or dividends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into every phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of ail, are owned equally and con trolled^ collectively.
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
The. dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests if each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is located on a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highlands of Western Louisiana, two mile»
from Leesville, the county se?.t v -"noa Parish, It il about !5 ,'aüss
'50m the Sabine River, 100 mile* from Shreveport, and nearly 300
rtiJw frsss New Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage,—which is a very, important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
• in any section of the United Stales. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining • room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two great sheds; two large barns; a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In turn this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim of the Colony is to make its community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
will erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
life which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
-! p "ùnation of profit and rent, the Sane, happy, carefree life of the in
haoitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life ai does this one.
As the most direct basis for ihe support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its herd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. S. Government; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations, and for logging two Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind many
fruits, berries, cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, «sugar cane, and
peanuts do well, while rice, potatoes, and other crops may be grown
for home uses.
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
of fine sweet potatoes, which were put into the evapojator house
and cuied.
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
1700 gallons of pur« sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
value.
An orchard of twenty acres has been planted, the fruit trees being
supplied by the government. It is a natural berry country, and many
kinds are found growing wild.
The mild, long season is especially adaptable to the raising of
live stock. The native grasses which grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
the year.
Better than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tile, right on the Colony's townsite. A modern brick
making plant, having a capacity of 15,000 brick per day, has recently
been installed. The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ready sale. With the growth of this industry, it is now only a ques
tion of time when the small frame structures of the lumber days will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the benefit of the
' community, are the following:
Wood-working and handle-making machinery; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
shoe-repairing and harness-making shops; printing and publishing
plant; bakery; butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
ing department ; hospital; hotel; swimming pool; theater: and at
various other seasons other work is done.
Most of this has been accomplished in the last two years; for the
colonists have now learned how to co-operate and conquer their sel
fish desires in favor of cöllective need.
eL -»-operates» TVy bi £ev* I a eo -eperaiiea.
'I |akes careful study and persistent training to eliminate the
competitive »pint which has been drilled into them from youth.
thus, the Colony divides co-operators into two general classes: One
class may join the Colony and co-operate with their fellows com
pletely: lhe other class desires to live near a co-operative commun
ié' ye ! . OWn ovvn la " d > '° oIs > e 'c-. desiring private ownership in
these tilings. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre
lhe Colony is now m a position to interest both. Those who wish
to come mto the Colony may do so on the terms of membership given
in another place on this page. Those who wish to own land may
buy a Co-operative Farm, participating to an extent i n the co-operative
advantages of the Colony. They may market their crops with the
Colony, enjoy the social advantages, and many of the educational
advantages, with the privilege of exchanging land to be applied o„ a
nvembership if desired and if acceptable as members. The Co-oper
ative Colony will retain about 5,000 acres for itself. The idea is to
build up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
The colony employs agents, but does n ot authorize them to close
any transactions. Memberships should be taken out through the
Membership department, Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville, La.
he colony wants members. It wants people to become interest^
^TL e ï. pnse " ° n ! e ? any pnva,e P rofi| . is lhe opportun
ity which co-operators have areamed of. It i s now an established
fact. Will you do your part to extend the field ot it. influence?
. Those intending to visit the colony should get off the train at Stable,.
All train» stop here. You may not be able to purchase a tick*
to this place; you may have to buy to Leesville. but you can get
* V ckel from EeesviIIe here for ten cent» without getting off the
I"!"; We J"" 1 a11 ,raIn * : 'he Colony town is right on the railroad.
Notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so.
If yoil are intere»ted, »end for more information and a»k »uch que»
t.on» you wi»h. Send »tamps for reply. We want you to know
about u. and we want vnu to ask ouestions about everything not
ciade clear to you. Literature. »eilt tree on requeit.
Llano Co-operative Colony
LEESVILLE, LA.
—Advertisement