What Is a
Co-operative
Farm?
, The Llano Co-ôperative Colony has for some time advertised CO-OPER
ATIVE FARMS for sale.
WHAT ARE THESE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHY DO THEY SELL INDIVIDUAL CO-OPERATIVE FARMS?
WHAT DO THEY DO WITH THE MONEY? -
A Co-operative Farm is offered by the Llano Co-operative Colony to
suit a type Qf co-operator who believes in co-operation, yet whose early training
or personal environment excludes him from the possibility of successfully co
operating with his fellows in a co-operative, collectively-owned community.
On a Co-operative Farm, he may own his own farm, his stock, tools, and ev
erything else, just as if he were on any other farm. The differences in favor
of a Llano Co-operative Farm are: He has the social life of the Colony, which
is a large factor in making farm life attractive. This social life costs him
nothing, and includes pictures, concerts, dances, lectures, etc., as well as the
acquaintances of hundreds of fellowthinkers, congenial and sympathetic
He also has the benefits of co-operative buying, for he may buy at the
Colony Store at the same rates as the colonists, which is cost price. On ma
chinery, tools, feed, etc., this item will save the farmer_many dollars, which
would ordinarily go to the middlemen.
The Co-operative Farmer also has the benefit of the Colony selling or
ganization, should he have products to dispose of. The Colony will buy the
whole crop of certain kinds, such as'broom corn, peanuts, or other produee
which the Colony uses in its industries.
In the matter of the education Qf his children, the co-opefative farmer
has superior facilities. Away from the domination of capitalist ideas, the
Llano system of education is entirely different. Instead of cramming stuff into
îhe child's head, ways are devised to arouse his interest and thus allow him to
develop naturally what is already in him. This alone is a splendid reason why
Co-operative Farms are to be desired
\ WHY DOES THE COLONY SELL INDIVIDUAL FARMS?
As stated above, one reason is thai îome co-operators do not like to
own everything collectively; they prefer to own their own land. Another rea
son is. that the Llano Colony has contracted for 20,000 acres of land, much
more than they can use for many years. The Colony wants to build up this
section of the country for two reasons. It can help thousands of exploited
workers to get onto a farm with little expense, and they can forever be free
from want and hunger. In thià section, a very small acreage is sufficient to
feed a family — it is being done on five acres and less.
Another reason is that the more people the Colony is able to put on
the land here, the larger and greater will be the success of the Colony.
What does the Colony do with the money?
Every acre of land sold goes into the institution for advancing the in
dustries and farms. There is no profit to be piled up—no dividend to stock
holders to pay. Every cent earned by the Colony goes back into the move
ment to spread the idea of colony co-operation.
YOU SHOULD BUY A CO-OPERATIVE FARM—IF—
—If you believe in co-operation, but would rather not go into complete
collective ownership of things used by all—
—If you want tb live with or near co-operators—
—If you desire the social and educational advantages of a co-operative
colony—
—If you are so constituted that you would not be congenial to the
Llano Colony — but want to learn and try to become a good co-operator—
—then, buy a small Co-operative Farm from the Llano Co-operative
Colqny.
$15.00 an Acre
/;
It is said that a man and his family can live 011 five acres here. Many
are doing it. But twenty acres is better. Think of what can be done on
twenty acres!
Twenty acres at $15, is only $300.
Have you heard of any better or easier way to economic freedom?
No rent, no profit on foods, and little clothes "needed owing to mild climate.
No coal strike can bother, where there is worlds of pine wood.
A Co-operative Farm Offers
Economic Freedom
Write to the Llano Co-operative Colony for more particulars, or, bet
ter still, come and spend your vacation here and see the situation for your
self. It costs only a dollar a day to stay at the Colony hotel — board and
Llano Co-operative Colony
Leesville .... Louisiana
Here I am in New York. It is a huge
city. The most impressive thing to rne
is the transportation system. The im
mensity of the underground system al
most staggers one. Miles upon miles
of it; trains, six and eight cars long,
rush with resounding speed. There is
no confusion—all is order. Yet the
present facilities are inadequate to take
care of the increasing population.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
We marvel at the aquaduct at Rome
and the great coliseum seating 80,000 ;
the Acropolis at Athens; the walls of
China, and the huge piles of rock in
the sands of Egypt. These awe one be
cause of the age they possess. The
mysterious catacombs of Rome stir the
imagination. Why were they built and
by whom? A fairly good guess is
made.
I Yet here in modern New York, the
subway. A few years sufficed to con
struct it. The monument of Ghiza
stands a mute testimonial to the slave
labor of ancient Egypt. Korfu built
i a great one and it is said that 350,
000 men labored for thirty years to
raise it. Yet, more stone has been tak
en from Culebra pass alone than is in
the pyramid of Korfu. Amazing ad
vance !
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
A tall building in New York is not
'7 lul "\r
building
'7 lul "\r
so very impressive; for the reason that
it stands amid a collection of tall build
ings. The great Singer building with
its 56 stories startles the mind upon pa
per more than when you see it. While
piercing the sky many stories more
than its brothers, yet it doesn't thrill;
it has too much competition.
Close by are dozens of giant build
ings—stone and steel. Almost anyone
of them sinks into insignificance the
bigness of the past.
« * * «
I am writing this in the room former
ly occupied by Harry K. Thaw the
slayer of Stanford White. The mon
ument left by Stanford White, the Mad
ison Square Building, is but a block
away and frowning down upon us is
the Metropolitan Tower with its 28 or
30 stories. The time of day i? shown
by illuminated hands—very attractive
in the dun of a murky day. One block
north is the Flatiron building, known
the country over. It's a triangular
building and, while very high, looks
small in this forest of buildings.
And the crowds! Eternal crowds!
Go on the street at any hour, this sec
tion of Fifth Avenue and the intersect
ing Broadway is swarming with peo
pie. Where are they all going? What
are they doing here? Probably, the
same as myself, looking for a larger
market for personal services.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The other day I went over Hack
ensack way and saw the famous Hack
ensack Meadows. New Orleans
built on such ground and assuredly as
soon as this land is drained the Great
er New York will take it in. Engineers
seem able to do anything.
I * ¥ * ¥
I have frequently mentioned the ad
vances made in wireless, or radio
phoning. I had the pleasure a night
or two ago of dancing to the music of
Lopaz's Orchestra in the Pennsylvania
Hotel in the home of my friend George
Palmer, way over in New Jersey. He
has a wireless set. We heard a well
known baritone of one of the big
churches giving a program of songs.
We heard ships at sea, 340 miles away
talking to the Port of New York, mak
ing arrangements about docking. Ar
lington at Washington sent time and
we all set our watches.
When one thinks of the tens of thou
sands who are listening to daily pro
grams around here and the odd 500,
000 in America, a glimpse of the mag
nitude can be grasped of where the
radiophone has advanced within a few
years. To hear those voices coming
from a horn, magnified a thousand
■ tiiges, sends shivers up and down the
spine. Immortality is not a hard thing
to believe in now!
When silence was secure we. could
hear the buzz of the wireless operator,
several of them, as they sent their mes
sages. I'm not very familiar with the
Continental code which is generally
used.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
I am living in the wonderful Peter
Stuyvesant Hotel, at 86th Street and
Central Park West. This means that
Central Park is staring us in the face,
the two reservoirs shunt the rising sun
into our faces from the mirror which
stands close to the bed. It is an odd
experience to be on the 12th story, ly
ing in bed, looking into a mirror and
see what is taking place in Central
park.
Central Park is not at all like what
1 had expected. It's not as wierd or,
great as I expected. I had been rath
er led to believe it was something like
Yosemite or a miniature Yellowstone.
It is an innocent, delightful park, about
three miles long, and about three-quar
ters of a mile wide, starting at 59th
Street and ending at 110th Street. It
is a big park all right, stones cropping
Meanderings
By Robert K. William«, D. C., Ph. C.
thru the turf here and there and trees
in liberal profusion. It is crossed here
and there by "cross town lines." Fifth
Avenue is on one side and Central Park
West is on the other side.
If anyone had given me this descrip
tion before I came I'd had no difficul
ty in understanding what it was all
about.
The big museum, two blocks long, is
on the Filth Avenue side and from my
room I can look down upon the stone
roof. While waiting for a car a few
days ago, I decided to go in with Sis
ter Jean, who swears by—and at—
New York. She says that New York is
the apotheosis of cities upon the earth,
and I'd accept her judgment, for she's
traveled west as far as Davenport, and
been over to Jersey City once or twice.
Yes, she's fond of New York—I don't
blame her, tho.
Where in the world did all the ma
terial that fills the great halls of this
museum come from and who gathered
it? Objects from every known coun
try, from the first faint dawn of his
tory to the present, stand there for in
spection. One of the most gruesome
things I saw was a mummy of a wom
an, folded up in a grave, with cups,
food and water jars, just as she was
placed there in the Nile valley four
g Her fi nails
u „ ; _
and hair and teeth look just like any
particular lady of to-day. She's in an
advanced stage of emaciation, thru
lack of nutriment.
While standing there looking down
at this form of a once woman, throb
bing, pulsating with life, filled with
thoughts, desires, ambitions, loves and
hates! Who was she? What did she
think when alive and where is she
now? Ah, that's the question.
If one wants to feel the insignifi
cance of self and appreciate the great
ness of time, and how it levels every
thing, destroying, revamping, unfold
ing, just look at these still forms and
speculate on the antiquity of man and
the world and ask the question "And
for what?"
An old priest, sevèral thousand years
old lies in state, his body uncovered
and slightly shrunken. He has splen
did features, skull shaped practically
as that of any of your friends. He i:
s&id to be the best specimen so far dis
covered, i
The art of Greece, from Praxiteles,
Phidias and unknown sculptors stand
all around; reproductions and replicas
of the buildings and friezes charm and
interest. Rare gems, pottery, glass
bowls, papyrus, rugs, cloths are shown.
It will take days and days to go thru
the museum. An education for a think
ing person can be had on every floor
and 1 in every room. Teachers with their
broods, ten and twenty, were seen here
and there, the teachers explaining ev
erything to the young eager minds. I
was just thinking what a wonderful
chance these New York children have
if they are only made to embrace the
free chances of filling the mind with
the history of the past.
¥ ¥ * *
Amazing, gorgeous, impelling as is
the museum, we come out and look up
and down Fifth Avenue and see that
wonderful stream of life, going both
ways, street cars, busses, cabs, taxis,
horse barouches, the subway and the
elevated, and stand in admiration and
awe of the present-day New York.
The traffic on Fifth Avenue on the
street is controlled by an ingenious
system of lights reflected from tow
ers set a few blocks apart. These
lights obviate the possibility of con
gestion. It is like watching a well
trained army to see the traffic, rushing
pell mell seemingly one instant, then
all stop for blocks, at a light signal.
It's amazing.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
I am connected with Nepoleon Hill's
Magazine now, little "Nap" having
given me the business managership of
that very much worth-while publica
tion. All you people who receive it
will find much material that will have
peculiar, personal interest for you.
tp is a thoro co-operator, and is
teaching the uninitiated what it really
means, thru its«pages.
HEROES OF GLORIOUS WAR?
(By The Federated Press)
New York. — Nineteen more Ameri
cans who enlisted here last summer to
help Spain in her glorious war on Mo
rocco are back. Only one of them
brought back *vith him anything ex
cept memories of ill-treatment, deceit
and abuse. That one—John Hardy of
Elvira, Ohio, bought a Moorish bullet
in his chest. His experience of the
Spanish army was such that he would
not let Spanish surgeons try to extract
it, and he expects to go to a hospital
here to have it done—if he can get the
money.
What is eternal life to a man who
cannot use a half hour of this life
well ?—Emerson..
PRAETORIAN GUARD
PLUTES IS
(By The Federated Pre»)
Los Angeles. — About a year ago s
vigilant movement called the Citizens
Police started for the alleged purpose
of combatting all forms of lawlessness.
A few days ago this organization v
perfected and it turned out to be an
other instrument for aiding the Mer
chants and Manufacturers Association
in its fight against "radicalism." The
Citizens' Police is headed by a so -call
ed crime commission of 50, among
them the president of the M. and M.
and several members of the Better Am
ericans. The members are organized
in city blocks, each block having a
captain. Standard police whistles are
the medium of warning and commun
ication. So far 1824 blocks have been
. . .,
.organized, with 76 district captains su
P ervlsln 8 e wor 1
Australian Giant Beans
NEW VEGETABLE GROWN IN
LLANO COLONY AND MUCH
PRIZED AS A FOOD
Prepared in the same way an egg-plant
Much resembles the latter—except
that by many colonists it is
mach preferred to it
Grows to thé enormous size of 4
feet in length and 4 inches in diameter.
Vines grow 50 to 75 feet long.
Full instructions for planting and
ökure *?ith each packet of seeds.
1 The colonist who introduced Aas
.-alian Giant Bean" in Llano paid $1,
for 3 seeds.
Almost sure growers. Only limited
number of seeds available. Orders
filled in order of receipt. ORder NOWl
Prise-—50c for packet of 12 seeds.
LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
ERIE LABOR PRESS
17 West 16th Street, Erie, Pa.
A weekly newspaper devoted exclusively to
the interests of the working class.. Member»
of the Federated Press News Service. Official
organ Central Labor Union and Socialist Party
in Erie County, Penna. Live snappy. Breezy.
Sample Copy free on reques One Year, $1.50
The Eret Stock-Raising
Colony
OF ERET, STATE LINE. MISS.
IS
A CO-OPERATIVE
ORGANIZATION
Preparing for Agriculture, Horticul
ture, Manufacturing, Stock-Raising,
Merchandising, operation of restaur«
ants, hotels, libraries and places of
amusement. And on Loans of $1,00
or more, we will pay 8 per cent per
annum. Interest payable semi-annu
ally. Object: For securing live-stock
and machinery for the employment of
Labor. All transactions between mern
mers conducted by the Labor Exchange
Check system. 235p
MARRIAGE —As It Is and As it
Should Be—by Annie Besant. An intensely
interesting brochure, 25c. "Law of Popula
tion" (birth control) by Annie Besant, 25c.
"The Scarlet Review," 25c. "Diana," a psy
cho-physiological essay on sex relations, 25c.
"The Crucible," (agnostic weekly) four dif
ferent samples, 10c (none free).
THE CRUCIBLE
1330 First Ave, Seattle, Wash.
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY—
A FREE EARTH—The Abolition of
Privilege through Workers' Money.. No other
paper goes tso thoroughly into this subject aj
does THE EQUITIST.
Says the secretary of The Llano Publica
tions: We like your paper very much; we are
heartily in sympathy with its policy, and we
wish there were more like it."
Published weekly; $1.00 a year; $1.50
outside the United States.
THE EQUITIST
Bay View Skagit Co., Wash.
(By The Federated Press)
The Girl That's Different
(Do You Want Her?)
A Girl That's Different" is a re
print of a playlet written and played
by Llano colonists.
It contrasts the new girl, as exem
plified in Llano Colony, with the fussy,
frivolous, artificial girls elsewhere.
In neat 20-page booklet—
10 Cents
Postage Free.
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE LA.