*
The Llano Colonial
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY AT LLANO COLONY
LEESVILLE. LOUISIANA.
BY THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
Entered as second-cla»> matter. May 14, 192J, at the postoffice at
Leesviile, La., under act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.50 PER YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS: Canada, $2.00; Other Countries $2.50.
Make all remittances for subscriptions and address all communica
tions regarding the publications to The Llano Publications, Leesviile, La.
This will avoid trouble and delay in registering changes of address, etc.
RENEWALS AND CHANGES OF ADDRESS—When renewing, al
ways give the name as it appears on your label. When changing address,
you MUST always give us the OLD as well as the new address.
CARL GLEESER —Editor.
The only remedy for the high cost
of living is to grow your own food,
Two hours of intelligent work is all
it costs to produce a bushel of pott
toes. How much do you have to pay
for them?
As long as othèrs raise and keep the
chickens, you will have to pay a big
price for eggs. Why not keep your
own chickens and secure eggs at „first
hand at the expense of the chicken's
keep?
It is charged that Mayor Robert A,
Kemyon of Pawtucket, R. I., the other
day gave order to private guards and
police to fire upon unarmed strikers in
front of the Jencke's Spinning Co., mill
of Pawtucket, which resulted in th
death of a bystander and the wounding
of a score of others. As long as work
ers will vote savage brutes into offices
of trust they may expect just such treat
ment.
John D. Dodge, son of J. Dodge of
the Dodge Car Co., and now the pos
sessor of $2,000,000, was set free from
the Detroit County jail after spending
5 days there for speeding. He was
re-arrested and taken to Kalamazoo,
Mich., to answer a\ charge of speeding
there, and having a young girl in his
car without her consent. The girl
jumped from the car while going at
a rate of 30 miles an hour and was
hurt.
And yet we are all breaking our
necks to get rich—and foolish.
A state-wide campaign is on foot in
Alabama to force the government to
lease to Henry Ford the Muscle Shoals
project.
The time is now for Louisiana to
step in and help the movement. This
can be done and should be done at
once. It is a vital question with us here
ip Louisiana that Henry Ford be suc
cessful in getting the lease, first be
cause we are assured of a quare deal,
cheap fertilizer, and employment for
thousands. It will also add considera
ble to the value of our lands by the
establishment of the plant under the
direction of Ford and Edison. Again,
it will defeat the fertilizer trust whose
one object is to throttle any effort to
lessen the price of fertilizer. Wake up
to this splendid opportunity before it
is too late.
Secretary of War Weeks has order
ed all American troops that are now on
the banks of the river Rhine in Ger
many to return to the United States on
or before July I, 1922.
Thif is important news, and comes
unawares; but we fully expected it
long ere this, because there has been
no effort on the part of the nations
Let Us Do Your
Job Printing
Quick Service
Good Workmanship
Fair Prices
Llano Print Shop
Leesviile, La.
represented at Versailles to bear the
'burden of the expense entailed in the
upkeep of the American Army there,
This was demonstrated when the Un
ited States sent a message some three
weeks ago demanding payment from
the last installment of the German in
demnity for the upkeep of the Ameri
can Army in Europe. This latest move
of Mr. Weeks leads us to believe tkat
the demand was granted. More of this
later.
The distinguishing traits of the lib
eral are his passion for human libera
tion, and his faith in knowledge as the
means of emancipation. The liberty
he seeks may be religious liberty, or
intellectual or political or economic or
aesthetic or moral or physical liberty,
or any other kind, or all kinds together.
But if he is a true liberal he will look
to the ever-expanding fund of human
knowledge as the sure and adequate
agent for its attainment. No man,
therefore, who looks with equanimity
on any form or manifestation of slav
ery can rightly be rated a liberal. Su
perstition, bigotry, intolerance and pre
judice-—whatever enslaves, be- it chains
or dogma, the liberal opposes with all
his strength. "Freedom through truth"
the liberal's- motto. But he alone
determines what for him is true. Am
erica was founded by liberals; liberal
ism is the essence of true American
ism.—John Jordan.
• t i j v
pr ° m,se ° f leadershlp -
This old world of ours is in a terri
ble mess. Europe, Asia, and America
all seem to be circling in a mealstrom
of mistakes. On the horizon of the fu
ture there are no humans that show
Chaos seems
to be the lot of every nation. Some
claim.that because there is no gold in
sight, there can be no hope. We have
the gold of the world, and look at the
condition of our country! The four
power treaty is but an example of the
pitiable need we have for real states
men. Look around whereever we may,
and the names that come to our lips,
are as dross. Harding, Hughes, Hoo
ver, Borah, Lodge, Reed, Brandegee,
Robinson, and Underwood, and a host
of others no w in the public eye are as
mere children playing with a man's
game of government, and our hearts
sink within us at the thought that in
all this vast country of ours there has
not appeared a single figure who has
a promise of an intelligence that will
command the respect of the people.
Our country that was so rich, is now
so poor that we are unable to bring
forth a Moses to save us from the
slough of despond into which we have
fallen.
Some people study all their life, and
at their death have learned every
thing except to think.—Domergue.
Conscious, Purposeful
Economic Reconstruction
The Llano Co-operative Colony be
lives in construction and production
and in the conservation of everything
that contributes to hpman well-being,
upliftment, happiness and security, and
has discovered the methods by which
these ends can be achieved here and
now without waiting on a conversion
of a majority to an acceptance of the
knowledge it possesses, or on a polit
ical victory at the polls, or on any oth
er expected previous occurrence that
has hitherto caused people to delay en
gaging in direct efforts of self-help.
The Llano colonists have acquired
the state of consciousness in which
they know that they are quite able to
care for themselves, to govern them
selves, and are not in very great need
of an extraneous rulership, guardian'
ship or domination The late Col.
Henry Watterson in his reminiscences
in the Saturday Evening Post, as the
conclusion of a long life's experience,
said: "Of all human contrivances, the
most imperfect is government. * *The
politician, like the poor, we have al
ways with us. As long as men delegate
to other men the function of acting
for them, of thinking for them, we shall
continue to have him." And will fail
to achieve their welfare and things that
they need, he might have added.
People must be willing to be respon
sible for themselves; they must deter
mine and make sure to control them
selves and deal honestly and equitably
and in a friendly spirit with one anoth
This is direct self-government, and
it is applicable in any size group or
aggregation of people, be it a village,
town, city, state or nation. Why do
men look to others to do för them what
they should do for themselves? When
people directly learn and practice self
government, we may have an adminis
tration of public affairs that will serve
but never pretend nor attempt to im
pose arbitrary rule, or tolerate exploi
tation of the people under any pretext.
No human being created the natural
resources nor the processes or possi
bilities in nature that mankind make
use of for the satisfaction of their ne
cessities and whatever else contributes
to their happiness. And all human be
ings, having inherently the same neces
sities to maintain their existence, have
consequently the same right to access
tô these natural resources aan'd poten
tialities without favoritism, partiality
or privilege to any individual or group
of people. All the righteous claim that
any man or woman ever can have j
against any other man or woman under i
natural law is compensation for labor
performed. Any other claim whatso
ever put forward upon the products
or services of another human being is
spurious, fraudulent, and cannot be
vindicated in equity.
When will people ever learn that we
must conform to the requirements "of
nature— thé natural, constitution of
things without and the natural re
quirements of our own being within?
Will the people ever wake up to the
fact that they cannot change truth?
A demonstration agent from the La.
State University, who lectured at New
llano the other day truly said that the
life problem of the farmers and their
wives must be solved by themselves,
that no one else could solve it for
them. That everyone else had his own
problem to solve and had no time, nor
any interest in solving the farmers'
problem.
When the farmer once realizes that
fact and decides to face his own prob
lem intelligently and take a look around
to see how others are managing things,
he is bound to decide for .co-operation
and work in harmony with his fellows
not only his neighboring farmers but
the productive workers in general thru
out the world.
Plenty is a natural law of the uni
verse, abundance is the reward of pro
duction. In spite of the most waste
ful methods there is enough and to
spare for all, even now, if it were dis
tributed according to the necessities of
the people, instead of being monopo
lized by greed.
Production and Construction are the
only methods by which wealth can be
provided. These only are the normal
natural sources of providence. False
teaching and erroneous ideas lead peo
ple to attempt to gain the necessaries
of life by unproductive labor or swind
ling tricks.
The "Freeman" of* New York well
says: An important part of wisdom
is not only to know what to do, but to
do first things first." That is what
the colonists at Newllano are doing.
They are doing what they are able to
do now, and they will progressively
undertake larger tasks ' as their abili
ties and means grow equal to the lar
ger enterprise.
The progress of the world depends
on the introduction and application of
true ideas and the increasing displace
ment of erroneous ideas and conduct.
The better everywhere is eliminating
the less desirable and less efficient in
production and it will also expel tie
less useful in distribution and in every
other activity and relation of mankind.
The motives that dominate the indi
vidual are determined by the plane of
consciousness, the degree of intelli
gence and the character of the emo
tions to which he has evolved. When
greed predominates, no consideration
or sympathy for the well-being of his
fellows is experienced or manifested.
And such people are exclusively ma
terially, end selfishly determined. The
powdr-lusting, domineering and arro
gant are obsessed by this diabolic in
clination and are chiefly responsible
for the largest measure of ills, depriv
ation, war and want that have afflict
ed the race.
Among the victims of this insatiable
greed and arrogant tyranny the feeling
or sentiment of fellow-feeling, compas
sion, sympathy, love, first manifested
itself. The well-being of others be
came a matter of considerable concern,
and th : s interest in the well-being of
others in course of time became strong
er and stronger, and by further growth
and increase will become so strong and
all-powerful that the exploitation of the
humblest human being will no longer
ke tolerated and greedy selfishness will
spurned and execrated by the ma
jority of mankind.
Just think of it! Those who, thru
the instrumentality and by the means
of unjust laws that they themselves
have cunningly enacted, have wrong
fully and criminally taken posses
sion of the wealth that by every prin
ciple of right belongs to all, boast of
their stolen loot and swag, as if it were
a highly meritorious achievement! But
the very fear for its security is an un
conscious confession o(, guilt on their
part. And this fear has induced them
to take recourse tö the infliction of the
most monstrous cruelty and the de
struction of human beings by mil
liones and millions in murderous war.
And they brazenly boast that "Might
is right," i.e., that the infliction of
cruelty and violence is right, provided
one is in a position to indulge himself
in such infliction of violence upon oth
er human beings. If in harmony with
the constitution of nature and right
when imposed upon the under dog at
the' present timé, then it will also be
right for the undër-dog in his turn in
reprisal to visit the utmost cruelty of
which he is able upon his tormentors.
And there are hundreds of millions of
those under-dogs, and in comparison
with his numbers the "Might is Right'
champions are but a mere handful
Reigns of terror, inaugurated by other
oppressors and despoilers in the past
have always ended in a reign of terror
of which they themselves have become
the victims.
The ability to inflict violence is nev
er right and never wiii become right,
and those who indulge themselves in
that mischievous foible will have a
dreadful awakening some day, if they
do not come to their senses and stop
before it is too late. "What a man
soweth that shall he also reap." It
is a law in nature that no one can es
cape. Beware! .
Men who would be builders of our
thought to-day must have a great mis
sion in their souls when they write or
speak to us. They must have a firm
faith in humanity. Truth is in too great
a demand to make anything justifiable
short of an honest attempt at a full re
alization of the vision caught of her.
Real men write or speak, not for mon
ey or tawdry fame, but from honest
motives alone. Yes, the full conviction
of his soul. Such was Lincoln. And
less than this is worse than nothing.
The Federal Reserve bank with all
that it promised to the people, has
been totally unable to stem the tide
for which it was made. Banks are
breaking all over this fair land of ours
as never before in all its history. Un
employment is again rearing its ugly
head about the masses. The soldiers
are crying out for a bonus. The peo
ple are crying out for some one to
save them from the ravages of more
taxes. The lands are lying idle. Bus
iness is no more. Credit has gone with
business, and we sit and wonder what
the coming day will bring. Men ask
each other in passing "What next?"
The morning papers are scanned for
some glimmer of hope for the future.
Crime runs rampant over the land.
The suicide harvest is increasing as
the days pass. Immorality is on the
increase. Raw alcohol, under the tit
les of. "moonshine," "Forest Juice,"
and other high-sounding names, is tak
ing its daily toll of human life. Men
sneer at the word "honor" when finan
cial matters are under discusion, and
we seem to be ever moving onward be
neath an irresistable pressure toward
some inevitable gulf. From time to
time we catch fleeting glimpses of our
normal selves, but sorrow clings to us
like burrs and we turn away from the
scene with disgust.
It is quite one thing to send 4 billion
men who have been reared in an at
mosphere of law and order and respect
for their fallows tô the training camps
of the nation, there to learn the correct
manner to kill, maim, and destroy ev
erything in sight; to send them over
the seas and put the weapons of death
in their hands and give them a free
hand to do as they wish, irrespective.
But to bring them back home again af
ter one or more years of slaughter, and.
t.o expect them to be the same sweet
fellows they were when they left home
and kindred—it can't be done, that s
all! And if they are denied the right
to work for an honest living, as are
many thousands at this writing, then
it is not to be expected that they will
sit supinely by and starve.
There is a big coal strike in prospect
in a week or so. In Europe they have
learned that the use of coal can largely
be now dispensed with, and in due
course of time without difficulty be en
tirely superceded. Switzerland and
Italy are speedily introducing electri
fication of railroads and factories by
utilizing the water power of the coun
try. The forces of nature, wind, wa
ter, and waves, are virtually unlimited
and only require being harnessed for
use. Intelligent realization of the gi
gantic possibilities of co-operative la
bor will uncover to workers the right
method of escaping from exploitation
and wage slavery. By voluntary co
operation and harmonious association,
the most satisfactory conditions for
happiness, plenty and security can be
realized.
Ingratitude 'is the world's recom
pense for benefaction. In return for
America's entrance into the world war
on the side of the Allies, Mousieur Lou
cheur, chief financier of France public
ly declares that that country will not
pay the three billions that they owe to
the American people—that they will
repudiate the debt. Tha American civ
il war involved the country in a debt
of about three billion and now France
asks that in addition to the expense of
America's participation in the war, it
also shoulder so large a 'sum of the
expenses of France. Funding the war
debt of the Allies as a whole amounted
also to practical repudiation, as the
American people will discover very
"Taking as a representative shipping
point the town of Albany, Georgia, and
for example the city of Baltimore as
the market fpr melons, the following
remarkable facts were developed: The
grower averaged for car-load ship
ments of melons, 7.5 cents per melon
—the total carrying or freight charges
(participated in by several rwalroads)
was 12.7 cents per melon—a total cost
to the DEALER in Baltimore of 20.2
cents per melon.
"Investigation of retail- prices show
ed that this same melon SOLD AT
ONE DOLLAR to the housekeepers of
Baltimore, netting the middlemen the
remarkable profit of over 300 per
cent." — L. and N. Ry. ad.
The farmer who hauls melons to
market at l/x cents each is too fond
of work; as is also the man who pays
a dollar for one of them. Why live in
the cities anyhow?
PEOPLE SAVE FIVE CENTS
ON A QUART OF MILK
The consumers of La Crosse, Wis.,
have rebelled against the milk distrib
utors, who charged them 12c a qùari
for milk purchased from the neighbor
ing farmers for less than half the price.
To stop this profiteering the co-opera
tors first favored a co-operative cream
ery. Then one of the leading 'doctors
of the city suggested public milk sta
tions. In order to benefit the whole
community, the latter plan was adopt
ed, and the citizens of La Crosse are
now getting milk for seven cents a
quart from the ten public milk stations
in the city, thereby saving themselves
over $100 a day.
LOW-DOWN TREACHERY
OF RAILWAY EXECUTIVES
(By The Federated Press)
New York.—Gross intentional negli
gence on the part of the railroads
while under federal control is respon
sible for decreased efficiency and in
creased costs, declared Frank P. Walsh
representing i the "intervening" rail
employes, before the Interstate Com
mC « Ce Commission, in session here.
The alleged charges that the de
creased outputs and the increased costs
were caused by the inefficiency of la
bor, Walsh told the commission, "are
false, and the railroads know they are
false. The railroads, while under fed
eral control, were run by the same per
sons as previously, but under condi
tions in which they tried to show that
the government could not run them."
Chico, Cal. — Labor unions in this
town fyave been providing free meals
for unemployed men camped in "jun
gles outside of town.
LARGE QUANTITIES OF
FERTILIZERS AT NEWLLANO
Comrade George D. Coleman read
two very interesting papers at the ag
ricultural nieeting of the Colony on
the evening of St. Patrick s Day, ancs
incidentally called attention to the great
value to the Colony's farming opera
tions of the many thousand tons of
decayed sawdust and hundreds of tons
of wood ashes available. The soii here:
is lacking in humus and packs so so
lid that it interferes with the necessary
soil aerification for favorable plant
growth. Where sawdust has been ad
ded to the soil in fair proportion, the
favorable effect is visibly in evidence
by the larger plant growth. It should
always be remembered that botl^ air
and moisture are necessary to the
growth of plants. There is no hidden
mystery about bacteria in the soil and
about chemical plant foods in the ^bil
that must be understood before the
land can be made to produce profita-?
ble crops. Where just the right con
ditions of soil moisture and air can be
supplied fairly good crops can be
grown, even if otherwise lacking in a
I high grade of fertility. The more fa
'vorable the conditions that are pro
vided for the. plants the better they
can perform their function of chang
ing and transforming the inert and in
organic mineral matter of the soil and
I other simple substances into the com
plex organic compounds suitable to
sustain animal and human life.
I Comrade Sutton called attention
to the importance of properly testing:
' all seeds that are to be planted. He
insisted that by scientific selections
■ and breeding of seed corn the com
crops of the South could easily be in
creased from six to seven-fold: and
the larger crop will involve no greater
amount of cultivation than the crops
of 15 to 20 bushels at the present time
! With scientific fertilization of the
soil, added to careful selection and
breeding of seed, miraculous crops in
quality and quantity can be garnered.
• Seeds should be stored in dry, airy,,
cool places, where they are not sub
juct to sudden greart changes in tem
perature.
Fruitgrowing is to be discussed at
next week's meeting of the agricultur
al class.
LIBERATE CARPATHO-RUSSIA
(By The Federated Press)
Ottawa, Can. — That the Canadian
representatives to the forthcoming ec
onomic conference at Genoa support
the request of Carpatho-Russia for un
ion with Russia is the plea made to the
government by R. N. Mamilo, Winni
peg, president of the League for the
Liberation of Carpatho-Russia.
Don't forget that printing you have
—Let us figure on it. There will be
no charge for it; we will surprise you.
|[ Classi fied Section
TRADE FOR LLANO STOCK.—
160 eres in Minnesota; fair buildings;
drilled well and windmill; mail and
Phone; 8 miles to town; 1 mite to
school. About 40 acres wood; 30'
acres fenced; 50 acres in tame grass;
balance natural meadow. Lime-clay
soil. Price $35 an acre ($5600.00).
Time on $1200 at 7%: balance in
cash. Will take Llano stock up to
$1900.00 as cash, par value.—C. J. S.
care Llano Colonist ]4J
cty^ L J RADE F0R COLONY
MUCK—40 acres of bottom 'land,
mostly under cultivation, under Cotton
wood Ditch, Cottonwood, Cal.; Five
miles from town and three miles to rail
road; best land around this part of
California. Will take $1500 Colony
stock, balance easy terms.—H. A.
Aaby, Cottonwood, Cal.
FOR SALE. — 41 acres of land;
acres cleared and under cultivation.
4-room house, and barn. 100 peach
trees; 20 apple trees; 20 grape vines;
strawberries, blackberries, and dewber
ries; some figs. Well improved—
f r Ce w,r, $,,0a Main road.
A- E WELDON, Rte !, Box 63, Lees
viile, La.
FOR SALE—500 acres; 30 in culti
vation; lots of good timber on bal
*?n C <inn 0 ? d h ?, US * : lwo tenant houses.
$10,500 for all. — See G. T. Pickett,
Lano Lolony.
FOR SALE---102 acres; J52 acres
cultivated; 2 good houses; 2 barns.
Price, $5,000. Close to Colony hotel.
oee ue orge T. Pickett. 39
■ ^ —200 acres near Picker
ing; 30 acres in cultivation; good tim
ber on the balance; hummock and
black land; good six room house with
H fir " places: a bargain at
$4500.-—See Pickett Llano Colony.32
FOR SALE—55-acre farm near Pick
ering; 45 acres cleared of stumps,
well-fenced and cultivated; family or
chard of mixed fruits; two good hous
IVinn rnS o and « t ' 1er buildings. Price
$3,300. See G. T. Pickett, Llano