ACCEPT SHORT RATIONS
10 HELP STARVING RUSSIANS
(By The Federated Pre»)
Katonah, N. Y. — Brookwood Work
ers' College, has voted to go on short
îations for two weeks in order that the
money thus saved may be sent to the
workers of starving Russia. It was
further voted that the contributions be
sent directly to the Friends of Soviet
Russia so that it may be administered
by the Russian Red Cross.
It ià estimated that $100 will be
made available by this action and this
in spite of the fact that the average al
lowances for food at Brookwood is on
ly 49 cents per person per day. .
"Dis hyah new minister am sure
crazed," said the colored woman. He
tole mah husband, what weighs two
hundred and fo'ty pounds, to bewar,
lest he be weighed in de balance an'
foud' wantin."
GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMY
Good health and economy are mixed
in the Llano food products. Nothing
but the purest natural foods are con
tained in Llano eats.
For instance, take the New Season's
SUGAR CANE SYRUP-this is the
finest we have ever made. The cane
is grown here in the Colony, is taken
to our own mill where it is crushed to
pulp and the juice in carried in pipes
to the cooking vats where it flows into
pans containing steam pipes, where it
is cooked; then it flows out at the other
end of the pans into cans—never
touched by human hands. This syrup
contains all the natural mineral ele
ments so beneficial to the body and
which are taken out in the refining of
white sugar. We are sure you will en
joy a can of this clear sugar-cane syr
up. $1.00 a can—you pay express or
postage.
Then there is the Llano Peanut But
te»'—Colony-grown peanuts, roasted in
bake ovens, shelled and hand-picked,
then crushed, a little salt added for
flavor, all the natural oils remain in
the butter. That is why Llano Peanut
Butter is different. Peanut oil is re
moved by many manufacturers and
cotton oil and starch substituted. As
a food value, Llano Peanut Butter is
hard to beat. Packed in carton, net
weight about 1J4 lbs., 25c.
These two products are combined in
LLANO CANDY—peanuts and cane
syrup—a candy par excellence for pur
ity and food value. Made in three
styles—Peanut Brittle; Peanut Taffy;
and plain. Try a pound of this and
see what Llano can do. 20c per lb.
Send your orders to:
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY
LEESVILLE, LA
If It Is a
DIXIE PRIDE BROOM
IT IS A GOOD ONE
Made and Sold by
LLANO CO-OPERATIVE COLONY, Leesville, La.
Why Are We
Unemployed?
Find the solution to the above perplexing problem in; —
Progress and Plenty
By JAMES S. PATON
Mr. Paton, a member of the Llano Co-operative Colony,
in his recent book, ' Progress and Plenty," presents a timely
and able discussion on current economic thought, dealing es
pecially with currency reform matters.
It explains why the unemployment curse is upon us, why
the prices of land, labor, and capital are high or iow. It sets
forth a plan for immediate action which the author believes
«s fundamentally necessary to preserve the best interests of
humanity.
The book is cloth-bound and was published to sell at
$1.00, but can be obtained now through the Llano Colony for
50c.
50 Cents
CLOTH-BOUND— —POSTAGE PAID
THE LLANO PUBLICATIONS
LEESVILLE, LA.
ERIE MAINTAINS
FINE LABOR ORGAN
A bright and breezy paper comes
to our exchange desk weekly from Erie
Penna. It is the Erie Labor Press and
is the organ of the Central Labor Un
ion and the Socialist Party of Erie.
Erie is a manufacturing town of 110,
000 population, located on Lake Erie,
and besides being a lake port it is a
railroad center and the home of ona
of the largest plants of the General
Electric Company.
The Labor Press is a fearless work
ing-class organ, owned and controlled
by the workers of Erie. From its last
number we glean that the unemploy
ment problem has struck the town very
hard, there being nearly 12,000 work
ers unemployed at present.
Even in Erie the workers are slowly
and surely learning co-operation and
they have at present their own coop
erative store, doing $2,000 worth (A
business each week. Plans are now un
der way to branch out with the gro
cery business and several desirable lo
cations have already been chosen for
branch stores. Every worker in Erie
will soon be in easy reach of a co-op
erative store owned and conducted by
the workers.
The political, economic, and co-op
erative movement of labor all com
bine in supporting the Labor Press and
in this way Erie workers unite in main
taining one of the finest labor papers
published anywhere.
The paper carries the Federated
Press news service and combines with
the labor news of the world the local
labor and Socialist activities, that
makes it a mouthpiece that does credit
to the Erie working class movement.
DISSENSION WILL
BRING DISASTER
(By The Federated Press)
St. Louis. — Charles Lammert, pres
ident, St. Louis Building Trades Coun
cil, has resigned, stating that since his
craft, the Painters and Decorators, ac
cepted a 20 per cent wage reduction,
he cannot work in accord with a ma
jority of the other trades in the council
who voted against reduced wages.
Lammert, who has been president of
the Building Trades Council for 10
years, has been a leader of the conser
vative element.
Your attention is drawn to the an
nouncement of the rebuilding of Llano
on another page. Here is the oppor
tunity you have been looking for. Turn
to it now.
A man s vocation is the sphere in
which to illustrate his precepts.—Bish
op Brent.
The Most Important
Subject All Should Know
a
Said Samuel Butler in his book "God
the Known and God the Unknown,"
"Mankind has ever been ready to dis
cuss matters in the inverse ratio of their
importance, so that the more closely
a question is felt to touch the heart of
all of us, the more incumbent it is con
sidered upon prudent people to profess
that it does not exist, to frown it down,
to tell it to hold its tongue, to main
tain that it has long been finally set
tled so that there is now no question
concerning it."
But this disposition and impulse to
turn away from self-knowledge can,
and in the interests of the individual's
arid society's well being and happiness,
must be overcome. It is just as true
to-day as it was in the days of an
cient Greece that the most important
subject for every individual to attend
to it to learn to "know thyself," to
know what his individual conduct with
respect to himself ought ^o be to keep
in good health and to maintain good
health, and what his conduct to other
people ought to be in order to conform
to the principles of righteousness and
tthe golden rule.
As we look back into the past we
know that people have been taught all
kinds of errors in every field of phen
omena. Now, it does not matter p
continental what we believe or disbe
lieve concerning astronomy or the con
figuration of the earth, whether we be
lieve we are living on the outside of a
solid globe or on the inside of a hollow
sphere. Our action can neither change
nor be affected by either one config
uration or the other. What we can
definitely know, demonstrate and util
ise in the interest of our mutual well
being here and now is the only thing
that really counts and is of value for
human beings to know.
A reporter in a recent issue of the
New York Evening World mentions a
Mrs. Harriet Luela McCollum, who has
recently blown into that city from the
wild and wooly West, who makes the
bold claim that everyone can live to be
150, make a million, and be success
ful in every endeavor.
The following statement made by
Mrs. McCollum was read at the "last
meeting of the mental science class at
Newllano:
j "The secret is simple. It is based
^on a great scientific discovery, made
not many years ago—the vast, untap
ped power and resources of the subcon
scious mind.
1 "In every human being there is a
buried genius or a buried giant—a hid
den power to accomplish or to com
mand. The everage individual is like
a 100-acre field with but ten acres un
der cultivation. We know far more
than we are conscious of knowing.
First of all, decide what you want.
Most persons don't know that. They
think it would be nice to be rich, or
well, or beautiful, but they have not
formulated one single definite thing
which they desire.
"Choose your goal. Then visualize
it. See in your mind's eye the attrac
tive face and figure you yearn to pos
sess. Make a sharpe, clear-cut men
tal picture of your life when you have
obtained possession of a million dol
lars.
The next step after deciding what
you want to be and creating a picture
of yourself in the desired role, is to
acquire good health. And remember
that the mind creates the body. I have
remade myself entirely in eight years.
If you had seen me eight years ago.
is
il Y — "°— J 1 -"" <*e">
il Y <*e">
you would not know me now. I was
thin, timid, worn looking; I had an
lndistinct voice and no presence at all.
Health and beauty are not altoge
ther a matter of mental determination,
but depend to a great extent on nja
that we take lnto our bodies,
We eat too much protein— too
much meat. No one can live healthy
on a meat, potato and starchy dessert
diet. Be sure to eat something raw
every day and eat more green veget
ables than is your habit. Drink a
quart of sweet unpasteurized milk; or,
if you must take the pasteurized, drink
a glass of orange juice daily
Now about getting next to the mil
lion.
First, decide how you will get it
whether by taking it away from the
world, or by enriching the world to
such an extent that it will be glad to
hand you as much as you want. As
suming that you choose the second of
these two methods, pick out a field
for yourself, something that most ap
peals to you, and learn everything there
is to know in that field. Then find
your new idea. 1 he world will always
pay for a new discovery which serves
it.
Old age is a matter of letting your
self slump, or giving up to the idea of
age and death. Old age is a condition
and not a necessary one. It has been
mgrasned into the racial sübconscious
ness that we must die around 60 or
So we just lie down and die.
"To stay young one must act young
and think young. I told my class of
middle-aged men and women the other
day to run at least an hour every day
of their lives.
"Mental calisthenics every day for at
least an hour will help you to draw
out of yourself the wonderful things
that are in you. Cultivate your men
tal and emotional muscle just as you
cultivate that in your arms and legs."
Mr. Frederick Elias Andrews, now of
the Unity School of Christianity of
Kansas City, in the March, 1917 num
ber of Nautilus, published in Holyoke,
Mass., declared that through affirma
tion he had transformed himself from
a helpless cripple to a perfectly healthy
and normally formed man. The writer
met Mr. Andrews repeatedly and can
certainly testify to his present health
fulness.
Correct judgment and decision as to
food and other disciplinary matters are
also a mental determination as well as
all other actions in which man engag
es. The trouble with many people who
take a cursory look at mental science,
is that they do not take in the full
scope and influence of that subject.
The great object is to tame the pas
sions, to subdue the animal in man,
and the sensual inclinations. By bath
ing in cold water mornings the will
can be strengthened and the braîn
stimulated, and a proper diet is of ut
most help in gaining self-control. The
Bible declares that "He who learns
to control himself is greater than he
who conquers and subjects and ex
ploits others by violence, treachery, or
unprincipled cunning.
The importance of the practice of
visualization was again impressed up
oii^ the students. They were told to
try and visualize the growth of their
favorite flower from the seed to its
perfect blooming estate. Mentally to
plant îhe seed, see it germinate; the
little rootlets reaching out for nourish
ment; the shoot peering above the
ground; the gradually unfolding plant,
the bud evolving into the compléta
flower. When this has been accom
plished, it will become comparatively
a simple matter to visualize into tan
gible manifestation the most desirable
economic and social conditions requir
ed for human happiness.
OF COURSE MR. FORD IS RIGHT
Knoxville (Tenn.) Plaindealer.—
Gold is a relic of Julius Caesar, and in
terest is an invention of Satan, says
Henry Ford.
When government needs money for
public improvements, it issued interest
bearing bonds, increasing the national
debt.
That's all wrong, says Ford.
His substitute plan is for government
to issue non-interest-bearing paper
money, with the natural wealth of the
public improvements as security. Mus
cle Shoals for instance. The money
would be gradually retired out of the
profits. And no interest to pay!
Inventor Edison thinks Ford has a
sound idea on the money question. He
comments : The people have an in
stinct which tells them that something
is wrong and that the wrong somehow
centers in money."
Edison raises the question: Just how
much difference is there between e
government bond and paper money?
Discussing the $30.000,000 of gov
ernment financing involved in the pro
posed Muscle Shoals deal, Mr. Edison
points out that a bond issue would be
like this:
Government issues bonds. Brokers
sell them. Then the bonds would be
come negotiaable—as gilt edged as pa
per money, because government is back
of the bonds and the people's confi
dence is back of the government,
j Why not, asks Edison, just issue new
money instead of bonds? Either would
be based on the Muscle Shoals im
provement. The paper money would
be us ^d to pay for'materials and labor
on the job. The whole transaction
would involve only $30,000,000.
_But if the bonds were issued instead
of paper money, interest charges would
swell the $30,000,000 to $66,000,000
by the time the bonds were paid off
an d retired.
What F ord and Edison propose is
not a scheme of fiat money, with noth
ing back of it except a vague govern
ment promise to pay.
In a roundabout way they are ad
vocating a money system based on the
products of human energy, instead of
on gold.
It is not a ne w idea. A few econom
ists have suggested that money should
be sold in stores, the same as merchan
dise.
The re-discount system of the Fed
eral Reserve Banks practically does
that. Reserve notes are issued, backed
y brickl cotton in warehouses
etc.. When these goods are paid for
by buyers, the money issued on them is
retired. f
Ford and Edison would extend this
system to government financing and
using currency instead of bonds, save
the interest.
A Story With a Message
for Co-operators
CO-OPERATION has been successful in European countries for
many years in the retail and wholesale grocery and provision
business, and has recently branched into the manufacturing end.
But co-operatiu» "or diyidends or for savings on the weekly grocery
needs, is alright as far as it goes.
The Llano Co-operative Colony was founded to extend this co
operation into ev«ry phase of human need. With this in view, there
is no limit to the possibilities for co-operation in a community where
all land, machinery, tools, industries, etc., needed and used for the
welfare of all, are owned equally and controlled^collectively.
No individual greed or desire for special privilege can benefit at the
expense of the needy.
The dominant thought of the Llano Co-operative Colony is that it
shall be an association of workers banded together to protect the in
terests of each and of all in such a manner that they may secure the
entire result of their labor, using such methods and devices as shall
be necessary to accomplish this end. In 'order to make this possible,
it was necessary that a favorable location blessed with natural re
sources should be secured.
The Llano Co-operative Colony is r located o n a 20,000-acre tract
of land in the healthful Highland? of Western Louisiana, two miles
from Leesville, the couaty Mai «f V— Parish. It is about !5 jb ÎI cï
*ïom the Sabine River, 100 miles from Shreveport, and nearly 300
fesfli New Orleans. The Kansas City Southern Railway runs
through the tract.
The Highlands at this place are gently-rolling hills, giving perfect
drainage—which is a very important thing. Health reports, as well
as the experience of the colonists during more than three years, indi
cate that health conditions here will compare favorably with those
in any section of the United States. No sickness has been exper
ienced which can be attributed to location or climate.
The Colony contracted to purchase 20,000 acres on very advan
tageous terms. Five thousand acres have already been deeded to
the Colony. In making the contract of purchase of this tract, the
stores and buildings of a former lumber town were included. Among
them are the hotel, with its dining room and kitchen, rooms for
guests and the library; two grear sheds; two large barns;" a store;
an office building; dozens of small houses; hundreds of thousands
of feet of lumber; a concrete power house; a four-cell dry house;
and other buildings. The value of these buildings to the Colony is
almost incalculable; as they now house inhabitants and industries.
Resident members of the Colony are in direct control of its in
dustrial activities. ,An executive board of directors are chosen each
year and may be removed by a vote of the members. In tum this
executive board selects the heads of departments, who are respon
sible to the board for the conduct of their work.
The aim» of the Colony is to make its community life as enjoyable
as possible. In this it has succeeded admirably. The many education
al advantages for both children and adults are noteworthy. The
equality of all, the common interest in the prosperity and progress
made, the social equality, the equality of allowance made for living
costs, the freedom from worry, the spirit of the undertaking which
win erect a new method of living—these are the features of the colony
lite which grip. Eight hours a day, an allowance made so that children
• learn independence, everything sold as nearly cost as possible, the
elimination of profit and rent, the sane, happy, carefree life of the in
habitants impress all visitors. Never before did any community possess
such advantages, such prospects, such a pleasant life as does this one.
As the most direct basis for the support of the Colony, agricul
ture comes first. Allied to agriculture is the dairy department, with
its nerd of 20 milk cows and 17 Holsteins, obtained on contract from
the U. 5. Government ; will soon develop into source of in
come. To secure the greatest efficiency in the various farming op
erations and for logging two ) Fordson tractors have been added
to the Colony equipment.
Experience proves that garden truck of almost any kind many
fruits, bernes cotton, sweet potatoes, beans, corn. «ugar cane, and
for liomeu P 013 ' 0 * 8 ' an<J o:fler cro P s ma y be grown
In this connection, the Colony last year harvested 3000 bushels
and cured Wee ' P0ta ' 0eS, which were P" 1 in, ° the evaporator house
In the cane-growing, the Colony is very successful, having made
l/UU gallons of pur. sugar cane syrup and 700 gallons of sorghum mo
lasses last season.
Recent harvests have proved to the colonists that soy beans,
peanuts, and velvet beans make splendid crops and are rich in food
An orchard of twenty acres, has been planted, the fruit trees being
t. It is a natural berry country, and many
supplied by the government.
kinds are found growing wild.
liJ\ e tnrT ld ' t T 8 ', ea50n is e, P ec ''?"y adaptable to the raising of
and «I ,k "f gras . 5cs wh , Ich grow rank among the timber
and along the creeks, provide excellent feed for the greater part of
tne year.
Better than some gold mines is a splendid bank of clay, suitable
for brick and tde, right on the Colony's townsite. A modern brick!
bet" 1 ? ft T I C T C " y ,° f I5 '° 00 brick P" da * ha ° recently
been installedL The bricks made are of excellent quality and find
ti^n f'ti' L k groW 1 , . h £ of ,his industry, it is now only a que,
t.on of time when the small frame structures of the lumber day, will
be replaced by commodious brick houses.
Among the other industries being operated for the benefit of the
community, are the following:
waTon°iT rkin !j and , handIe " n! » altin g machinery ; blacksmith shop, and
wagon-making department; steam laundry; broom-making factory;
olant TT" 8 . T . , harn " 8 - making »hops; printing and publishing
fn J 3 ery ' butcher shop; general commissary; sweet potato-dry
"a 8 nouT a :r" : PUa ! : e ' : Pool; theaten and a,
M ! . seas °ns other work is done.
rnln - , °k ,h ' S ^ i*"™ accom P iishe d i" the last two years; for the
fil X 5 " T le T ed , h ° W <° co-operate and conquer heir sel
L'r" -!" °t collect ' ve need. .
akes careful study and persistent training to eliminate thé
" " T'*'"' One
pletely The other I 7 * i,h ' heir fellow8 'om
ftv vet' own 1 S , de i lres ,'° l,ve near a co-operative commun
these things The T* k ' '? 1 P " Va,e ownership in
mese things. These may buy land near the Colony at $15 per acre
to t ï" y ,hê CoLv 3 P05 J ,i0n ,0 "I"" 1 bo,h - 11,036 wh ° wish
in another place online
hiiv a Cn r" those who wish to own land mav
advantage,^the Colony^ T^v'" 8 '° c °-°P erative
Colony eniov he A ? ,helr cr °P» with the
advantaoes witk .k -, advan ' a 8es. and many of the educational
s *• 1
The 8 ! P epar,menf . Llano Cooperative Colony, Leesville La
Jl- k p ° n ? makcs an y pnvate profit. It is the opoortun
tL I y °, u do >' our Pf to «'end the field of it, influence?
Alten', ,- V° "'"Y C0 ' 0ny ' hou!d get off ,he ,rain «» Stables.
All tram s.op here. You may not be able to purchase a tick£
1 tit, torn L° U 7\ haV V 0 buy L ~-ne. but yl "can £
train We Tee^iTt - ,k """ with ° Ut ge,,!n S off ,he
Notify us when V ! tOVm " riaht ° n ,he ™'road.
notify us when you expect to arrive if you can do so.
lions ^as" ^ T" »formation and ask ,uch ques
tion, a, you w„h. Send ,tamp, for reply. We want you to know
clear 8 to vTu T T '° aUe " : ° nt ab ° Ul ""vthin, no,
c,ear to y° u - rature s »ent free on request.
Llano Co-operative Colpny
LEESVILLE, LA.
—Advertisement.